<!DOCTYPE html [
  <!ENTITY % htmlDTD
    PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN"
    "DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
  %htmlDTD;
  <!ENTITY % netErrorDTD
    SYSTEM "chrome://global/locale/netError.dtd">
  %netErrorDTD;

<!ENTITY loadError.label "Problem loading page">
<!ENTITY retry.label "Try Again">

<!-- Specific error messages -->

<!ENTITY connectionFailure.title "Unable to connect">
<!ENTITY connectionFailure.longDesc "&sharedLongDesc;">

<!ENTITY deniedPortAccess.title "This address is restricted">
<!ENTITY deniedPortAccess.longDesc "">

<!ENTITY dnsNotFound.title "Server not found">
<!ENTITY dnsNotFound.longDesc "
<ul>
  <li>Check the address for typing errors such as
    <strong>ww</strong>.example.com instead of
    <strong>www</strong>.example.com</li>
  <li>If you are unable to load any pages, check your computer's network
    connection.</li>
  <li>If your computer or network is protected by a firewall or proxy, make sure
    that &brandShortName; is permitted to access the Web.</li>
</ul>
">

<!ENTITY fileNotFound.title "File not found">
<!ENTITY fileNotFound.longDesc "
<ul>
  <li>Check the file name for capitalization or other typing errors.</li>
  <li>Check to see if the file was moved, renamed or deleted.</li>
</ul>
">


<!ENTITY generic.title "Oops.">
<!ENTITY generic.longDesc "
<p>&brandShortName; can't load this page for some reason.</p>
">

<!ENTITY malformedURI.title "The address isn't valid">
<!ENTITY malformedURI.longDesc "
<ul>
  <li>Web addresses are usually written like
    <strong>http://www.example.com/</strong></li>
  <li>Make sure that you're using forward slashes (i.e.
    <strong>/</strong>).</li>
</ul>
">

<!ENTITY netInterrupt.title "The connection was interrupted">
<!ENTITY netInterrupt.longDesc "&sharedLongDesc;">

<!ENTITY netOffline.title "Offline mode">
<!ENTITY netOffline.longDesc "
<ul>
  <li>Uncheck &quot;Work Offline&quot; in the File menu, then try again.</li>
</ul>
">

<!ENTITY netReset.title "The connection was reset">
<!ENTITY netReset.longDesc "&sharedLongDesc;">

<!ENTITY netTimeout.title "The connection has timed out">
<!ENTITY netTimeout.longDesc "&sharedLongDesc;">

<!ENTITY protocolNotFound.title "The address wasn't understood">
<!ENTITY protocolNotFound.longDesc "
<ul>
  <li>You might need to install other software to open this address.</li>
</ul>
">

<!ENTITY proxyConnectFailure.title "The proxy server is refusing connections">
<!ENTITY proxyConnectFailure.longDesc "
<ul>
  <li>Check the proxy settings to make sure that they are correct.</li>
  <li>Contact your network administrator to make sure the proxy server is
    working.</li>
</ul>
">

<!ENTITY proxyResolveFailure.title "Unable to find the proxy server">
<!ENTITY proxyResolveFailure.longDesc "
<ul>
  <li>Check the proxy settings to make sure that they are correct.</li>
  <li>Check to make sure your computer has a working network connection.</li>
  <li>If your computer or network is protected by a firewall or proxy, make sure
    that &brandShortName; is permitted to access the Web.</li>
</ul>
">

<!ENTITY redirectLoop.title "The page isn't redirecting properly">
<!ENTITY redirectLoop.longDesc "
<ul>
  <li>This problem can sometimes be caused by disabling or refusing to accept
    cookies.</li>
</ul>
">

<!ENTITY unknownSocketType.title "Unexpected response from server">
<!ENTITY unknownSocketType.longDesc "
<ul>
  <li>Check to make sure your system has the Personal Security Manager
    installed.</li>
  <li>This might be due to a non-standard configuration on the server.</li>
</ul>
">

<!ENTITY sharedLongDesc "
<ul>
  <li>The site could be temporarily unavailable or too busy. Try again in a few
    moments.</li>
  <li>If you are unable to load any pages, check your computer's network
    connection.</li>
  <li>If your computer or network is protected by a firewall or proxy, make sure
    that &brandShortName; is permitted to access the Web.</li>
</ul>
">

  <!ENTITY % globalDTD
    SYSTEM "chrome://global/locale/global.dtd">
  %globalDTD;
]><!-- ***** BEGIN LICENSE BLOCK *****
   - Version: MPL 1.1/GPL 2.0/LGPL 2.1
   -
   - The contents of this file are subject to the Mozilla Public License Version
   - 1.1 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
   - the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at
   - http://www.mozilla.org/MPL/
   -
   - Software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" basis,
   - WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License
   - for the specific language governing rights and limitations under the
   - License.
   -
   - The Original Code is mozilla.org code.
   -
   - The Initial Developer of the Original Code is
   - Netscape Communications Corporation.
   - Portions created by the Initial Developer are Copyright (C) 1998
   - the Initial Developer. All Rights Reserved.
   -
   - Contributor(s):
   -   Adam Lock <adamlock@netscape.com>
   -   William R. Price <wrprice@alumni.rice.edu>
   -   Henrik Skupin <mozilla@hskupin.info>
   -   Jeff Walden <jwalden+code@mit.edu>
   -
   - Alternatively, the contents of this file may be used under the terms of
   - either the GNU General Public License Version 2 or later (the "GPL"), or
   - the GNU Lesser General Public License Version 2.1 or later (the "LGPL"),
   - in which case the provisions of the GPL or the LGPL are applicable instead
   - of those above. If you wish to allow use of your version of this file only
   - under the terms of either the GPL or the LGPL, and not to allow others to
   - use your version of this file under the terms of the MPL, indicate your
   - decision by deleting the provisions above and replace them with the notice
   - and other provisions required by the LGPL or the GPL. If you do not delete
   - the provisions above, a recipient may use your version of this file under
   - the terms of any one of the MPL, the GPL or the LGPL.
   -
   - ***** END LICENSE BLOCK ***** --><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Problem loading page</title>
    <link media="all" type="text/css" href="inkypinkyponky_data/netError.css" rel="stylesheet">
    <!-- XXX this needs to be themeable -->
    <link href="data:image/png;base64,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" type="image/png" rel="icon">

    <script type="application/x-javascript"><![CDATA[
      // Error url MUST be formatted like this:
      //   moz-neterror:page?e=error&u=url&d=desc

      // Note that this file uses document.documentURI to get
      // the URL (with the format from above). This is because
      // document.location.href gets the current URI off the docshell,
      // which is the URL displayed in the location bar, i.e.
      // the URI that the user attempted to load.

      function getErrorCode()
      {
        var url = document.documentURI;
        var error = url.search(/e\=/);
        var duffUrl = url.search(/\&u\=/);
        return decodeURIComponent(url.slice(error + 2, duffUrl));
      }

      function getDescription()
      {
        var url = document.documentURI;
        var desc = url.search(/d\=/);

        // desc == -1 if not found; if so, return an empty string
        // instead of what would turn out to be portions of the URI
        if (desc == -1) return "";

        return decodeURIComponent(url.slice(desc + 2));
      }

      function retryThis()
      {
        // Session history has the URL of the page that failed
        // to load, not the one of the error page. So, just call
        // reload(), which will also repost POST data correctly.
        try {
          location.reload();
        } catch (e) {
          // We probably tried to reload a URI that caused an exception to
          // occur;  e.g. a non-existent file.
        }
      }

      function initPage()
      {
        var err = getErrorCode();

        // if it's an unknown error or there's no title or description
        // defined, get the generic message
        var errTitle = document.getElementById("et_" + err);
        var errDesc  = document.getElementById("ed_" + err);
        if (!errTitle || !errDesc)
        {
          errTitle = document.getElementById("et_generic");
          errDesc  = document.getElementById("ed_generic");
        }

        var title = document.getElementById("errorTitleText");
        if (title)
        {
          title.parentNode.replaceChild(errTitle, title);
          // change id to the replaced child's id so styling works
          errTitle.id = "errorTitleText";
        }

        var sd = document.getElementById("errorShortDescText");
        if (sd)
          sd.textContent = getDescription();

        var ld = document.getElementById("errorLongDesc");
        if (ld)
        {
          ld.parentNode.replaceChild(errDesc, ld);
          // change id to the replaced child's id so styling works
          errDesc.id = "errorLongDesc";
        }

        // remove undisplayed errors to avoid bug 39098
        var errContainer = document.getElementById("errorContainer");
        errContainer.parentNode.removeChild(errContainer);
      }
    ]]></script>
  </head>

  <body dir="ltr">

    <!-- ERROR ITEM CONTAINER (removed during loading to avoid bug 39098) -->
    

    <!-- PAGE CONTAINER (for styling purposes only) -->
    <div id="errorPageContainer">
    
      <!-- Error Title -->
      <div id="errorTitle">
        <h1 id="errorTitleText">The connection was reset</h1>
      </div>
      
      <!-- LONG CONTENT (the section most likely to require scrolling) -->
      <div id="errorLongContent">
      
        <!-- Short Description -->
        <div id="errorShortDesc">
          <p id="errorShortDescText">The connection to the server was reset while the page was loading.</p>
        </div>

        <!-- Long Description (Note: See netError.dtd for used XHTML tags) -->
        <div id="errorLongDesc">
<ul>
  <li>The site could be temporarily unavailable or too busy. Try again in a few
    moments.</li>
  <li>If you are unable to load any pages, check your computer's network
    connection.</li>
  <li>If your computer or network is protected by a firewall or proxy, make sure
    that Firefox is permitted to access the Web.</li>
</ul>
</div>

      </div>

      <!-- Retry Button -->
      <button oncommand="retryThis();" label="Try Again" id="errorTryAgain" xul="http://www.mozilla.org/keymaster/gatekeeper/there.is.only.xul"></button>

    </div>

    <!--
    - Note: It is important to run the script this way, instead of using
    - an onload handler. This is because error pages are loaded as
    - LOAD_BACKGROUND, which means that onload handlers will not be executed.
    -->
    <script type="application/x-javascript">initPage();</script>

  </body>
</html>