{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\viewkind4\uc1\pard\cbpat2\fi360\ri-1800\qc\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-5\b\f0\fs48 THE INIMITABLE JEEVES\b0\par
(aka \b JEEVES\b0 )\par
by P. G. Wodehouse\par
(1923)\par
\cf0\expndtw0\fs30\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi360\ri-1800\cf1\ul\b 1\cf0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi360\ri-1800\sb34\cf1\expndtw-3 Jeeves Exerts the old Cerebellum\cf0\expndtw0\ulnone\b0\par
\par
\cf1 'Morning, Jeeves,' I said.\cf0\par
\cf1 'Good morning, sir,' said Jeeves.\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 He put the good old cup of tea softly on the table by my bed, and \expndtw2 I took a refreshing sip. Just right, as usual. Not too hot, not too sweet, not to weak, not too strong, not too much milk, and not a \expndtw-2 drop spilled in the saucer. A most amazing cove, Jeeves. So dashed \expndtw1 competent in every respect. I've said it before, and I'll say it again. \expndtw0 I mean to say, take just one small instance. Every other valet I've \expndtw2 ever had used to barge into my room in the morning while I was \expndtw-1 still asleep, causing much misery: but Jeeves seems to know when \expndtw-2 I'm awake by a sort of telepathy. He always floats in with the cup \expndtw-3 exactly two minutes after I come to life. Makes a deuce of a lot of \expndtw-2 difference to a fellow's day.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'How's the weather, Jeeves?'\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 'Exceptionally clement, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'Anything in the papers?'\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 'Some slight friction threatening in the Balkans, sir. Otherwise, \expndtw-2 nothing.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'I say, Jeeves, a man I met at the club last night told me to put \expndtw-2 my shirt on Privateer for the two o'clock race this afternoon. How about it?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'I should not advocate it, sir. The stable is not sanguine.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 That was enough for me. Jeeves knows. How, I couldn't say, but \expndtw1 he knows. There was a time when I would laugh lightly, and go \expndtw0 ahead, and lose my little all against his advice, but not now.\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw-3 'Talking of shirts,' I said, 'have those mauve ones I ordered arrived \expndtw-6 yet?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Yes, sir. I sent then back.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Sent them back?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'Yes, sir. They would not have become you.'\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw-2 Well, I must say I'd thought fairly highly of those shirtings, but I \expndtw1 bowed to superior knowledge. Weak? I don't know. Most fellows,\cf0\expndtw0  \cf1\expndtw2 no doubt, are all for having their valets confine their activities to \expndtw4 creasing trousers and what not without trying to run the home; but \expndtw2 it's different with Jeeves. Right from the first day he came to me, I \expndtw5 have looked on him as a sort of guide, philosopher, and friend.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw9 'Mr Little rang up on the telephone a few moments ago, sir. I \expndtw4 informed him that you were not yet awake.' \par
'Did he leave a message?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw10 'No, sir. He mentioned that he had a matter of importance to \expndtw4 discuss with you, but confided no details.'\par
'\expndtw5 Oh, well, I expect I shall be seeing him at the club.' \par
\expndtw7 'No doubt, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 I wasn't what you might call in a fever of impatience. Bingo Little \expndtw3 is a chap I was at school with, and we see a lot of each other still. He's the nephew of old Mortimer Little, who retired from business \expndtw4 recently with a goodish pile. (You've probably heard of Little's \expndtw6 Liniment - It Limbers Up the Legs.) Bingo biffs about London on \expndtw1 a pretty comfortable allowance given him by his uncle, and leads on \expndtw0 the whole a fairly unclouded life. It wasn't likely that anything which \expndtw5 he described as a matter of importance would turn out to be really \expndtw1 so frightfully important. I took it that he had discovered some new \expndtw6 brand of cigarette which he wanted me to try, or something like \expndtw3 that, and didn't spoil my breakfast by worrying.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 After breakfast I lit a cigarette and went to the open window to \expndtw4 inspect the day. It certainly was one of the best and brightest. \expndtw3 'Jeeves,' I said.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Sir?' said Jeeves. He had been clearing away the breakfast things, \expndtw3 but at the sound of the young master's voice cheesed it courteously. \expndtw0 'You were absolutely right about the weather. It is a juicy morning.' \par
\expndtw4 'Decidedly, sir.' \par
\expndtw5 'Spring and all that.' \par
\expndtw3 'Yes, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'In the spring, Jeeves, a livelier iris gleams upon the burnished \expndtw0 dove.'\cf0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi360\ri-1800\sb29\cf1\expndtw5 'So I have been informed, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Right ho! Then bring me my whangee, my yellowest shoes, and \expndtw7 the old green Homburg. I'm going into the park to do pastoral \expndtw3 dances.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 I don't know if you know that sort of feeling you get on these \expndtw3 days round about the end of April and the beginning of May, when the sky's a light blue, with cotton-wool clouds,and there's a bit of \expndtw4 breeze blowing from the west? Kind of uplifted feeling. Romantic,\cf0\expndtw0  \cf1\expndtw7 if you know what I mean. I'm not much of a ladies' man, but on \expndtw5 this particular morning it seemed to me that what I really wanted \expndtw3 was some charming girl to buzz up and ask me to save her from \expndtw5 assassins or something. So that it was a bit of an anti-climax when \expndtw3 I merely ran into young Bingo Little, looking perfectly foul in a \expndtw4 crimson satin tie decorated with horseshoes.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Hallo, Bertie,' said Bingo.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw7 'My God, man!' I gargled. 'The cravat! The gent's neckwear! \expndtw3 Why? For what reason?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw8 'Oh, the tie?' He blushed. 'I - er - I was given it.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 He seemed embarrassed, so I dropped the subject. We toddled \expndtw5 along a bit, and sat down on a couple of chairs by the Serpentine.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Jeeves tells me you want to talk to me about something,' I said.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Eh?' said Bingo, with a start. 'Oh yes, yes. Yes.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw7 I waited for him to unleash the topic of the day, but he didn't \expndtw6 seem to want to get along. Conversation languished. He stared \expndtw4 straight ahead of him in a glassy sort of manner.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw8 'I say, Bertie,' he said, after a pause of about an hour and a \expndtw3 quarter.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Hallo!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Do you like the name Mabel?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw7 'No.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'No?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw8 'No.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'You don't think there's a kind of music in the word, like the wind \expndtw4 rustling gently through the tree-tops?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw8 'No.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 He seemed disappointed for a moment; then cheered up.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Of course, you wouldn't. You always were a fatheaded worm without any soul, weren't you?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Just as you say. Who is she? Tell me all.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 For I realized now that poor old Bingo was going through it once \expndtw1 again. Ever since I have known him - and we were at school together \expndtw2 - he has been perpetually falling in love with someone, generally in the spring, which seems to act on him like magic. At school he had \expndtw1 the finest collection of actresses' photographs of anyone of his time; \expndtw4 and at Oxford his romantic nature was a byword.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'You'd better come along and meet her at lunch,' he said, looking\cf0\expndtw0  \cf1\expndtw2 at his watch.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw7 'A ripe suggestion,' I said. 'Where are you meeting her? At the\cf0\expndtw0  \cf1\expndtw-2 Ritz?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw7 'Near the Ritz.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 He was geographically accurate. About fifty yards east of the Ritz \expndtw6 there is one of those blighted tea-and-bun shops you see dotted \expndtw5 about all over London, and into this, if you'll believe me, young Bingo dived like a homing rabbit; and before I had time to say a \expndtw1 word we were wedged in at a table, on the brink of a silent pool of \expndtw4 coffee left there by an early luncher.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 I'm bound to say I couldn't quite follow the development of the \expndtw0 scenario. Bingo, while not absolutely rolling in the stuff, has always \expndtw5 had a fair amount of the ready. Apart from what he got from his uncle, I knew that he had finished up the jumping season well on \expndtw4 the right side of the ledger. Why, then, was he lunching the girl at \expndtw2 this God-forsaken eatery? It couldn't be because he was hard up. Just then the waitress arrived. Rather a pretty girl. \expndtw1 'Aren't we going to wait?' I started to say to Bingo, thinking it \expndtw4 somewhat thick that, in addition to asking a girl to lunch with him \expndtw2 in a place like this, he should fling himself on the foodstuffs before \expndtw5 she turned up, when I caught sight of his face, and stopped.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 The man was goggling. His entire map was suffused with a rich \expndtw4 blush. He looked like the Soul's Awakening done in pink. \expndtw5 'Hullo, Mabel!' he said, with a sort of gulp. \expndtw4 'Hallo!' said the girl.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Mabel,' said Bingo, 'this is Bertie Wooster, a pal of mine.'\par
'\expndtw6 Pleased to meet you,' she said. 'Nice morning.'\par
'Fine,' I said.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'You see I'm wearing the tie,' said Bingo. \par
\expndtw4 'It suits you beautiful,' said the girl.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\par
\cf1\expndtw1 Personally, if anyone had told me that a tie like that suited me, I \expndtw6 should have risen and struck them on the mazzard, regardless of \expndtw0 their age and sex; but poor old Bingo simply got all flustered with \expndtw4 gratification, and smirked in the most gruesome manner.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Well, what's it going to be today?' asked the girl, introducing the \expndtw3 business touch into the conversation. Bingo studied the menu devoutly.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'I'll have a cup of cocoa, cold veal and ham pie, slice of fruit cake, \expndtw4 and a macaroon. Same for you, Bertie?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 I gazed at the man, revolted. That he could have been a pal of \expndtw3 mine all these years and think me capable of insulting the old turn \expndtw5 with this sort of stuff cut me to the quick.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Or how about a bit of hot steak-pudding, with a sparkling limado to wash it down?' said Bingo.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 You know, the way love can change a fellow is really frightful to \expndtw2 contemplate. This chappie before me, who spoke in that absolutely careless way of macaroons and limado, was the man I had seen in happier days telling the head-waiter at Claridge's exactly how he \expndtw-2 wanted the chef to prepare the \i sole frite augourmet aux champignons, \expndtw1\i0 and saying he would jolly well sling it back if it wasn't just right. \expndtw0 Ghastly! Ghastly!\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 A roll and butter and a small coffee seemed the only things on \expndtw3 the list that hadn't been specially prepared by the nastier-minded \expndtw0 members of the Borgia family for people they had a particular grudge \expndtw5 against, so I chose them, and Mabel hopped it.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Well?' said Bingo rapturously.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 I took it that he wanted my opinion of the female poisoner who had just left us.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Very nice,' I said.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 He seemed dissatisfied.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'You don't think she's the most wonderful girl you ever saw?' he \expndtw-2 said wistfully.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Oh, absolutely!' I said, to appease the blighter. 'Where did you \expndtw4 meet her?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'At a subscription dance at Camberwell.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw7 'What on earth were you doing at a subscription dance at \expndtw0 Camberwell?'\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Your man Jeeves asked me if I would buy a couple of tickets. It \expndtw5 was in aid of some charity or other.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Jeeves? I didn't know he went in for that sort of thing.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'Well, I suppose he has to relax a bit every now and then. Anyway, \expndtw7 he was there, swinging a dashed efficient shoe. I hadn't meant to \expndtw2 go at first, but I turned up for a lark. Oh, Bertie, think what I might have missed!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'What might you have missed?' I asked, the old lemon being \expndtw0 slightly clouded.\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Mabel, you chump. If I hadn't gone I shouldn't have met Mabel.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw7 'Oh, ah!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 At this pouit Bingo fell into a species of trance, and only came out of it to wrap himself round the pie and the macaroon.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Bertie,' he said, 'I want your advice.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'Carry on.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'At least, not your advice, because that wouldn't be much good \expndtw1 to anybody. I mean, you're a pretty consummate old ass, aren't you? \expndtw5 Not that I want to hurt your feelings, of course.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw7 'No, no, I see that.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'What I wish you would do is to put the whole thing to that fellow \expndtw2 Jeeves of yours, and see what he suggests. You've often told me that \expndtw3 he has helped other pals of yours out of messes. From what you tell \expndtw4 me, he's by way of being the brains of the family.' \par
\expndtw6 'He's never let me down yet.' \par
\expndtw7 'Then put my case to him.' \par
\expndtw2 'What case?' \par
\expndtw4 'My problem.' \par
\expndtw3 'What problem?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Why, you poor fish, my uncle, of course. What do you think my \expndtw6 uncle's going to say to all this? If I sprang it on him cold, he'd tie \expndtw5 himself in knots on the hearthrug.' \par
'One of these emotional johnnies, eh?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw8 'Somehow or other his mind has got to be prepared to receive \expndtw3 the news. But how?'\par
'\expndtw1 Ah!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'That's a lot of help, that "ah"! You see, I'm pretty well dependent \expndtw5 on the old boy. If he cut off my allowance, I should be very much \expndtw2 in the soup. So you put the whole binge to Jeeves and see if he can't \expndtw6 scare up a happy ending somehow. Tell him my future is in his \expndtw5 hands, and that, if the wedding bells ring out, he can rely on me, even unto half my kingdom. Well, call it ten quid. Jeeves would \expndtw1 exert himself with ten quid on the horizon, what?'\par
'\expndtw4 Undoubtedly,' I said.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 I wasn't in the least surprised at Bingo wanting to lug Jeeves into \expndtw0 his private affairs like this. It was the first thing I would have thought \expndtw4 of doing myself if I had been in any hole of any description. As I \expndtw1 have frequently had occasion to observe, he is a bird of the ripest \expndtw5 intellect, full of bright ideas. If anybody could fix things for poor \expndtw3 old Bingo, he could.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 I stated the case to him that night after dinner. \par
\expndtw0 'Jeeves.' \par
\expndtw2 'Sir?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Are you busy just now?' \par
\expndtw6 'No, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'I mean, not doing anything in particular?' \par
\expndtw10 'No, sir. It is my practice at this hour to read some improving \expndtw5 book; but, if you desire my services, this can easily be postponed, or indeed, abandoned altogether.' \par
'Well, I want your advice. It's about Mr Little.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Young Mr Little, sir, or the elder Mr Little, his uncle, who lives \expndtw4 in Pounceby Gardens?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 Jeeves seemed to know everything. Most amazing thing. I'd been pally with Bingo practically all my life, and yet I didn't remember \expndtw4 having heard that his uncle lived anywhere in particular.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'How did you know he lived in Pounceby Gardens?' I said.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'I am on terms of some intimacy with the elder Mr Little's cook, \expndtw6 sir. In fact, there is an understanding.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 I'm bound to say that this gave me a bit of a start. Somehow I'd \expndtw4 never thought of Jeeves going in for that sort of thing.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Do you mean you're engaged?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'It may be said to amount to that, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Well, well!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'She is a remarkably excellent cook, sir,' said Jeeves, as though \expndtw3 he felt called on to give some explanation. 'What was it you wished \expndtw5 to ask me about Mr Little?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 I sprang the details on him.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw7 'And that's how the matter stands, Jeeves,' I said. 'I think we \expndtw2 ought to rally round a trifle and help poor old Bingo put the thing \expndtw6 through. TeU me about old Mr Little. What sort of a chap is he?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'A somewhat curious character, sir. Since retiring from business \expndtw5 he has become a great recluse, and now devotes himself almost entirely to the pleasures of the table.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Greedy hog, you mean?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'I would not, perhaps, take the liberty of describing him in pre\expndtw1 cisely those terms, sir. He is what is usually called a gourmet. Very \expndtw4 particular about what he eats, and for that reason sets a high value \expndtw3 on Miss Watson's services.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'The cook?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Yes, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Well, it looks to me as though our best plan would be to shoot \expndtw7 young Bingo in on him after dinner one night. Melting mood, I \expndtw5 mean to say, and all that.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'The difficulty is, sir, that at the moment Mr Little is on a diet, \expndtw4 owing to an attack of gout.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Things begin to look wobbly.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw7 'No, sir, I fancy that the elder Mr Little's misfortune may be \expndtw6 turned to the younger Mr Little's advantage. I was speaking only \expndtw2 the other day to Mr Little's valet, and he was telling me that it has \expndtw5 become his principle duty to read to Mr Little in the evenings. If I\cf0\expndtw0  \cf1\expndtw2 were in your place, sir, I should send young Mr Little to read to his \expndtw3 uncle.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'Nephew's devotion, you mean? Old man touched by kindly action, \expndtw-2 what?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Partly that, sir. But I would rely more on young Mr Little's choice \expndtw3 of literature.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw7 'That's no good. Jolly old Bingo has a land face, but when it \expndtw2 conies to literature he stops at the \i Sporting Times.''\cf0\expndtw0\i0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'That difficulty may be overcome. I would be happy to select \expndtw1 books for Mr Little to read. Perhaps I might explain my idea a little \expndtw4 further.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'I can't say I quite grasp it yet.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'The method which I advocate is what, I believe, the advertisers \expndtw2 call Direct Suggestion, sir, consisting as it does of driving an idea \expndtw1 home by constant repetition. You may have had experience of the \expndtw-4 system?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'You mean they keep on telling you that some soap or other is \expndtw3 the best, and after a bit you come under the influence and charge \expndtw5 round the corner and buy a cake?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'Exactly, sir. The same method was the basis of all the most \expndtw2 valuable propaganda during the recent war. I see no reason why it \expndtw4 should not be adopted to bring about the desired result with regard \expndtw3 to the subject's views on class distinctions. If young Mr Little were to read day after day to his uncle a series of narratives in which \expndtw1 marriage with young persons of an inferior social status was held up \expndtw5 as both feasible and admirable, I fancy it would prepare the elder \expndtw1 Mr Little's mind for the reception of the information that his nephew \expndtw4 wishes to marry a waitress in a tea-shop.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1\i 'Are \i0 there any books of that sort nowadays? The only ones I ever \expndtw2 see mentioned in the papers are about married couples who find life \expndtw5 grey, and can't stick each other at any price.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Yes, sir, there are a great many, neglected by the reviewers but \expndtw0 widely read. You have never encountered \i All for Love, \i0 by Rosie M. \expndtw-3 Banks?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw7 'No.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Nor, \i A Red, Red Summer, \i0 by the same author?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw7 'No.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'I have an aunt, sir, who owns an almost complete set of Rosie \expndtw5 M. Banks'. I could easily borrow as many volumes as young Mr \expndtw4 Little might require. They make very light, attractive reading.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Well, it's worth trying.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'I should certainly recommend the scheme, sir.' \par
'\expndtw6 All right, then. Toddle round to your aunt's tomorrow and grab \expndtw5 a couple of the fruitiest. We can but have a dash at it.'\par
'\expndtw2 Precisely, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\par
\cf1\ul\b 2\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw-2 No Wedding Bells for Bingo\cf0\expndtw0\ulnone\b0\par
\par
\cf1\expndtw2 Bingo reported three days later that Rosie M. Banks was the goods \expndtw3 and beyond a question the stuff to give the troops. Old Little had jibbed somewhat at first at the proposed change of literary diet, he \expndtw1 not being much of a lad for fiction and having stuck hitherto exclusively to the heavier monthly reviews; but Bingo had got chapter one \expndtw2\i of All for Love \i0 past his guard before he knew what was happening \expndtw5 and after that there was nothing to it. Since then they had finished \expndtw-4\i A Red, Red Summer Rose, Madcap Myrtle \i0 and \i Only a Factory Girl, \i0 and \expndtw-1 were half-way through \i The Courtship of Lord Strathmorlick.\cf0\expndtw0\i0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 Bingo told me all this in a husky voice over an egg beaten up in \expndtw6 sherry. The only blot on the thing from his point of view was that \expndtw3 it wasn't doing a bit of good to the old vocal cords, which were beginning to show signs of cracking under the strain. He had been \expndtw1 looking his symptoms up in a medical dictionary, and he thought he \expndtw2 had got 'clergyman's throat'. But against this you had to set the fact \expndtw3 that he was making an undoubted hit in the right quarter, and also \expndtw2 that after the evening's reading he always stayed on to dinner; and, \expndtw5 from what he told me, the dinners turned out by old Little's cook \expndtw2 had to be tasted to be believed. There were tears in the old blighter's \expndtw1 eyes as he got on the subject of the clear soup. I suppose to a fellow \expndtw0 who for weeks had been tackling macaroons and limado it must have \expndtw3 been like Heaven.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 Old Little wasn't able to give any practical assistance at these \expndtw8 banquets, but Bingo said that he came to the table and had his \expndtw-1 whack of arrowroot, and sniffed the dishes, and told stories \i of entrees \expndtw3\i0 he had had in the past, and sketched out scenarios of what he was \expndtw7 going to do to the bill of fare in the future, when the doctor put him in shape; so I suppose he enjoyed himself, too, in a way. \expndtw0 Anyhow, things seemed to be buzzing along quite satisfactorily, and Bingo said he had got an idea which, he thought, was going to clinch \expndtw6 the thing. He wouldn't tell me what it was, but he said it was a \expndtw0 pippin.\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'We make progress, Jeeves,' I said.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'That is very satisfactory, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Mr Little tells me that when he came to the big scene in \i Only a Factory Girl, \i0 his uncle gulped like a stricken bullpup.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Indeed, sir?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'Where Lord Claude takes the girl in his arms, you know, and \expndtw12 says -'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'I am familiar with the passage, sir. It is distinctly moving. It was \expndtw4 a great favourite of my aunt's.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'I think we're on the right track.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'It would seem so, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'In fact, this looks like being another of your successes. I've always \expndtw1 said, and I always shall say, that for sheer brains, Jeeves, you stand \expndtw0 alone. All the other great thinkers of the age are simply in the crowd, \expndtw2 watching you go by.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Thank you very much, sir. I endeavour to give satisfaction.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 About a week after this, Bingo blew in with the news that his \expndtw3 uncle's gout had ceased to trouble him, and that on the morrow he \expndtw0 would be back at the old stand working away with knife and fork as \expndtw1 before.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'And, by the way,' said Bingo, 'he wants you to lunch with him \expndtw2 tomorrow.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Me? Why me? He doesn't know I exist.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'Oh, yes, he does. I've told him about you.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'What have you told him?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Oh, various things. Anyhow, he wants to meet you. And take my \expndtw6 tip, laddie - you go! I should think lunch tomorrow would be \expndtw2 something special.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw7 I don't know why it was, but even then it struck me that there \expndtw6 was something dashed odd - almost sinister, if you know what I \expndtw8 mean - about young Bingo's manner. The old egg had the air of \expndtw4 one who has something up his sleeve.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'There is more in this than meets the eye,' I said. 'Why should \expndtw4 your uncle ask a fellow to lunch whom he's never seen?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'My dear old fathead, haven't I just said that I've been telling him \expndtw3 all about you - that you're my best pal - at school together, and all \expndtw4 that sort of thing?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'But even then - and another thing. Why are you so dashed keen \expndtw1 on my going?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 Bingo hesitated for a moment.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Well, I told you I'd got an idea. This is it. I want you to spring the news on him. I haven't the nerve myself.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'What! I'm hanged if I do!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'And you call yourself a pal of mine!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Yes, I know; but there are limits.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Bertie,' said Bingo reproachfully, 'I saved your life once.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'When?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 'Didn't I? It must have been some other fellow, then. Well, anyway, \expndtw5 we were boys together and all that. You can't let me down.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'Oh, all right,' I said. 'But, when you say you haven't nerve enough for any dashed thing in the world, you misjudge yourself. A fellow \expndtw34 who-'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Cheerio!' said young Bingo. 'One-thirty tomorrow. Don't be late.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\par
\cf1\expndtw7 I'm bound to say that the more I contemplated the binge, the less \expndtw5 I liked it. It was all very well for Bingo to say that I was slated for \expndtw2 a magnificent lunch; but what good is the best possible lunch to a \expndtw3 fellow if he is slung out into the street on his ear during the soup \expndtw6 course? However, the word of a Wooster is his bond and all that \expndtw5 sort of rot, so at one-thirty next day I tottered up the steps of No. \expndtw6 16, Pounceby Gardens, and punched the bell. And half a minute \expndtw3 later I was in the drawing-room, shaking hands with the fattest man I have ever seen in my life.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 The motto of the Little family was evidently 'variety'. Young Bingo \expndtw6 is long and thin and hasn't had a superfluous ounce on him since \expndtw3 we first met; but the uncle restored the average and a bit over. The \expndtw5 hand which grasped mine wrapped it round and enfolded it till I \expndtw2 began to wonder if I'd ever get it out without excavating machinery.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw8 'Mr Wooster, I am gratified - I am proud - I am honoured.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 It seemed to me that young Bingo must have boosted me to some \expndtw2 purpose.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'Oh, ah!' I said.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 He stepped back a bit, still hanging to the good right hand.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'You are very young to have accomplished so much!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 I couldn't follow the train of thought. The family, especially my Aunt Agatha, who has savaged me incessantly from childhood up, \expndtw5 have always rather made a point of the fact that mine is a wasted \expndtw2 life, and that, since I won the prize at my first school for the best \expndtw6 collection of wild flowers made during the summer holidays, I \expndtw4 haven't done a dam' thing to land me on the nation's scroll of fame. \expndtw2 I was wondering if he couldn't have got me mixed up with someone\cf0\expndtw0  \cf1\expndtw2 else, when the telephone bell rang outside in the hall, and the maid \expndtw1 came in to say that I was wanted. I buzzed down, and found it was \expndtw0 young Bingo.\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'Hallo!' said young Bingo. 'So you've got there? Good man! I \expndtw3 knew I could rely on you. I say, old crumpet, did my uncle seem pleased to see you?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Absolutely all over me. I can't make it out.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw8 'Oh, that's all right. I just rang up to explain. The fact is, old \expndtw0 man, I know you won't mind, but I told him that you were the author \expndtw5 of those books I've been reading to him.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'What!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Yes, I said that "Rosie M. Banks" was your pen-name, and you \expndtw1 didn't want it generally known, because you were a modest, retiring \expndtw0 sort of chap. He'll listen to you now. Absolutely hang on your words. \expndtw-1 A brightish idea, what? I doubt if Jeeves in person could have thought \expndtw4 up a better one than that. Well, pitch it strong, old lad, and keep \expndtw1 steadily before you the fact that I must have my allowance raised. I can't possibly marry on what I've got now. If this film is to end with the slow fade-out on the embrace, at least double is indicated. Well, \expndtw5 that's that. Cheerio!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw8 And he rang off. At that moment the gong sounded, and the \expndtw3 genial host came tumbling downstairs like the delivery of a ton of \expndtw-4 coals.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\par
\cf1\expndtw2 I always look back to that lunch with a sort of aching regret. It was \expndtw1 the lunch of a lifetime, and I wasn't in a fit state to appreciate it. \expndtw0 Subconsciously, if you know what I mean, I could see it was pretty \expndtw1 special, but I had got the wind up to such a frightful extent over the \expndtw0 ghastly situation in which young Bingo had landed me that its deeper \expndtw1 meaning never really penetrated. Most of the time I might have been \expndtw4 eating sawdust for all the good it did me.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 Old Little struck the literary note right from the start.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'My nephew has probably told you that I have been making a \expndtw3 close study of your books of late?' he began.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Yes. He did mention it. How - er - how did you like the bally \expndtw-1 things?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 He gazed reverently at me.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'Mr Wooster, I am not ashamed to say that the tears came into \expndtw2 my eyes as I listened to them. It amazes me that a man as young as \expndtw6 you can have been able to plumb human nature so surely to its \expndtw10 depths; to play with so unerring a hand on the quivering heart-\expndtw1 strings of your reader; to write novels so true, so human, so moving, \expndtw-1 so vital!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'Oh, it's just a knack,' I said.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 The good old persp. was bedewing my forehead by this time in \expndtw5 a pretty lavish manner. I don't know when I've been so rattled.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Do you find the room a trifle warm?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'Oh, no, no, rather not. Just right.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Then it's the pepper. If my cook has a fault - which I am not \expndtw5 prepared to admit - it is that she is inclined to stress the pepper a \expndtw4 trifle in her made dishes. By the way, do you like her cooking?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 I was so relieved that we had got off the subject of my literary \expndtw4 output that I shouted approval in a ringing baritone.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'I am delighted to hear it, Mr Wooster. I may be prejudiced, but to my mind that woman is a genius.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Absolutely!' I said.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw7 'She has been with me seven years, and in all that time I have \expndtw3 not known her guilty of a single lapse from the highest standard. \expndtw5 Except once, in the winter of 1917, when a purist might have \expndtw3 condemned a certain mayonnaise of hers as lacking in creaminess. \expndtw4 But one must make allowances. There had been several air-raids \expndtw5 about that time, and no doubt the poor woman was shaken. But nothing is perfect in this world, Mr Wooster, and I have had my \expndtw1 cross to bear. For seven years I have lived in constant apprehension \expndtw2 lest some evilly-disposed person might lure her from my employment. To my certain knowledge she has received offers, lucrative \expndtw3 offers, to accept service elsewhere. You may judge of my dismay, \expndtw2 Mr Wooster, when only this morning the bolt fell. She gave notice!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw8 'Good Lord!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'Your consternation does credit, if I may say so, to the heart of \expndtw0 the author of \i A Red, Red Summer Rose. \i0 But I am thankful to say the \expndtw4 worst has not happened. The matter has been adjusted. Jane is not \expndtw1 leaving me.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Good egg!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Good egg, indeed - though the expression is not familiar to me. \expndtw6 I do not remember having come across it in your books. And, \expndtw0 speaking of your books, may I say that what has impressed me about \expndtw3 them even more than the moving poignancy of the actual narrative, \expndtw4 is your philosophy of life. If there were more men like you, Mr \expndtw5 Wooster, London would be a better place.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 This was dead opposite to my Aunt Agatha's philosophy of life, \expndtw12 she having always rather given me to understand that it is the\cf0\expndtw0  \cf1\expndtw4 presence in it of chappies like me that makes London more or less \expndtw5 of a plague spot; but I let it go.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Let me tell you, Mr Wooster, that I appreciate your splendid \expndtw5 defiance of the outworn fetishes of a purblind social system. I \expndtw1 appreciate it! \i You \i0 are big enough to see that rank is but the guinea \expndtw6 stamp and that, in the magnificent words of Lord Bletchmore in \expndtw3\i Only a Factory Girl, \i0 "Be her origin ne'er so humble, a good woman \expndtw5 is the equal of the finest lady on earth!" '\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'I say! Do you think that?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'I do, Mr Wooster. I am ashamed to say that there was a time \expndtw3 when I was like other men, a slave to the idiotic convention which \expndtw6 we call Class Distinction. But, since I read your book -'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 I might have known it. Jeeves had done it again.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'You think it's all right for a chappie in what you might call a \expndtw1 certain social position to marry a girl of what you might describe as \expndtw2 the lower classes?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'Most assuredly I do, Mr Wooster.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 I took a deep breath, and slipped him the good news.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw7 'Young Bingo - your nephew, you know - wants to marry a \expndtw3 waitress,' I said.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'I honour him for it,' said old Little.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'You don't object?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'On the contrary.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 I took another deep breath and shifted to the sordid side of the \expndtw1 business.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'I hope you won't think I'm butting in, don't you know,' I said, \expndtw7 'but - er - well, how about it?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'I fear I do not quite follow you.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Well, I mean to say, his allowance and all that. The money you're \expndtw2 good enough to give him. He was rather hoping that you might see \expndtw4 your way to jerking up the total a bit.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 Old Little shook his head regretfully.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'I fear that can hardly be managed. You see, a man in my position \expndtw-1 is compelled to save every penny. I will gladly continue my nephew's \expndtw2 existing allowance, but beyond that I cannot go. It would not be fair to my wife.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'What! But you're not married?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Not yet. But I propose to enter upon that holy state almost \expndtw2 immediately. The lady who for years has cooked so well for me \expndtw0 honoured me by accepting my hand this very morning.' A cold gleam\cf0  \cf1\expndtw2 of triumph came into his eye. 'Now let 'em try to get her away from \expndtw4 me!' he muttered defiantly.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'Young Mr Little has been trying frequently during the afternoon to reach you on the telephone, sir,' said Jeeves that night, when I \expndtw2 got home.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw8 Til bet he has,' I said. I had sent poor old Bingo an outline of \expndtw3 the situation by messenger-boy shortly after lunch.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'He seemed a trifle agitated.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'I don't wonder, Jeeves,' I said, 'so brace up and bite the bullet. \expndtw4 I'm afraid I've bad news for you.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'That scheme of yours - reading those books to old Mr Little and \expndtw6 all that - has blown out a fuse.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'They did not soften him?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'They did. That's the whole bally trouble. Jeeves, I'm sorry to say \expndtw1\i that fiancee \i0 of yours - Miss Watson, you know - the cook, you know \expndtw2 - well, the long and the short of it is that she's chosen riches instead \expndtw4 of honest worth, if you know what I mean.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Sir?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw7 'She's handed you the mitten and gone and got engaged to old \expndtw6 Mr Little!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Indeed, sir?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'You don't seem much upset.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'The fact is, sir, I had anticipated some such outcome.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 I stared at him. 'Then what on earth did you suggest the scheme \expndtw-3 for?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'To tell you the truth, sir, I was not wholly averse from a severance \expndtw4 of my relations with Miss Watson. In fact, I greatly desired it. I respect Miss Watson exceedingly, but I have seen for a long time \expndtw2 that we were not suited. Now, the \i other \i0 young person with whom I \expndtw9 have an understanding -'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'Great Scott, Jeeves! There isn't another?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Yes, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'How long has this been going on?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'For some weeks, sir. I was greatly attracted by her when I first \expndtw5 met her at a subscription dance at Camberwell.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw10 'My sainted aunt! Not -'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 Jeeves inclined his head gravely.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Yes, sir. By an odd coincidence it is the same young person that \expndtw4 young Mr Little - I have placed the cigarettes on the small table. \expndtw5 Good night, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\par
\cf1\ul\b 3\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw-4 Aunt Agatha Speaks her Mind\cf0\expndtw0\ulnone\b0\par
\par
\cf1\expndtw6 I suppose in the case of a chappie of really fine fibre and all that \expndtw1 sort of thing, a certain amount of gloom and anguish would have \expndtw4 followed this dishing of young Bingo's matrimonial plans. I mean, \expndtw3 if mine had been a noble nature, I would have been all broken up. \expndtw7 But, what with one thing and another, I can't let it weigh on me very heavily. The fact that less than a week after he had had the \expndtw4 bad news I came on young Bingo dancing like an untamed gazelle \expndtw6 at Giro's helped me to bear up.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 A resilient bird, Bingo. He may be down, but he is never out. \expndtw4 While these little love-affairs of his are actually on, nobody could \expndtw3 be more earnest and blighted; but once the fuse has blown out and \expndtw6 the girl has handed him his hat and begged him as a favour never \expndtw3 to let her see him again, up he bobs as merry and bright as ever. If \expndtw5 I've seen it happen once, I've seen it happen a dozen times.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 So I didn't worry about Bingo. Or about anything else, as a matter \expndtw5 of fact. What with one thing and another, I can't remember ever \expndtw1 having been chirpier than at about this period in my career. Every\expndtw3 thing seemed to be going right. On three separate occasions horses \expndtw1 on which I'd invested a sizeable amount won by lengths instead of \expndtw2 sitting down to rest in the middle of the race, as horses usually do \expndtw4 when I've got money on them.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw7 Added to this, the weather continued topping to a degree; my \expndtw1 new socks were admitted on all sides to be just the kind that mother \expndtw2 makes; and to round it all off, my Aunt Agatha had gone to France \expndtw8 and wouldn't be on hand to snooter me for at least another six \expndtw6 weeks. And, if you knew my Aunt Agatha, you'd agree that that \expndtw3 alone was happiness enough for anyone.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 It suddenly struck me so forcibly, one morning while I was having \expndtw5 my bath, that I hadn't a worry on earth that I began to sing like a \expndtw4 bally nightingale as I sploshed the sponge about. It seemed to me \expndtw1 that everything was absolutely for the best in the best of all possible \expndtw-2 worlds.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 But have you ever noticed a rummy thing about life? I mean the \expndtw1 way something always comes along to give it you in the neck at the \expndtw2 very moment when you're feeling most braced about things in general. No sooner had I dried the old limbs and shoved on the suiting \expndtw4 and toddled into the sitting-room than the blow fell. There was a letter from Aunt Agatha on the mantelpiece.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw7 'Oh gosh!' I said when I'd read it.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'Sir?' said Jeeves. He was fooling about in the background on \expndtw4 some job or other.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'It's from my Aunt Agatha, Jeeves. Mrs Gregson, you know.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Yes, sir?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Ah, you wouldn't speak in that light, careless tone if you knew \expndtw1 what was in it,' I said with a hollow, mirthless laugh. 'The curse has \expndtw4 come upon us, Jeeves. She wants me to go and join her at - what's \expndtw8 the name of the dashed place? - at Roville-sur-mer. Oh, hang it \expndtw-2 all!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'I had better be packing, sir?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'I suppose so.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 To people who don't know my Aunt Agatha I find it extraordinarily \expndtw2 difficult to explain why it is that she has always put the wind up me to such a frightful extent. I mean, I'm not dependent on her financi\expndtw1 ally or anything like that. It's simply personality, I've come to the \expndtw6 conclusion. You see, all through my childhood and when I was a \expndtw1 kid at school she was always able to turn me inside out with a single \expndtw3 glance, and I haven't come out from under the 'fluence yet. We run \expndtw1 to height a bit in our family, and there's about five-foot-nine of Aunt \expndtw0 Agatha, topped off with a beaky nose, an eagle eye, and a lot of grey \expndtw3 hair, and the general effect is pretty formidable. Anyway, it never \expndtw2 even occurred to me for a moment to give her the miss-in-baulk on \expndtw0 this occasion. If she said I must go to Roville, it was all over except \expndtw2 buying the tickets.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'What's the idea, Jeeves? I wonder why she wants me.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'I could not say, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 Well, it was no good talking about it. The only gleam of conso\expndtw3 lation, the only bit of blue among the clouds, was the fact that at \expndtw1 Roville I should at last be able to wear the rather fruity cummerbund \expndtw8 I had bought six months ago and had never had the nerve to put \expndtw2 on. One of those silk contrivances, you know, which you tie round your waist instead of a waistcoat, something on the order of a sash \expndtw8 only more substantial. I had never been able to muster up the \expndtw6 courage to put it on so far, for I knew that there would be trouble\cf0\expndtw0  \cf1\expndtw2 with Jeeves when I did, it being a pretty brightish scarlet. Still, at a place like Roville, presumably dripping with the gaiety and \i joie de \expndtw5 vivre \i0 of France, it seemed to me that something might be done.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\par
\cf1\expndtw1 Roville, which I reached early in the morning after a beastly choppy crossing and a jerky night in the train, is a fairly nifty spot where a \expndtw3 chappie without encumbrances in the shape of aunts might spend a \expndtw0 somewhat genial week or so. It is like all these French places, mainly \expndtw3 sands and hotels and casinos. The hotel which had had the bad luck \expndtw6 to draw Aunt Agatha's custom was the Splendide, and by the time \expndtw7 I got there there wasn't a member of the staff who didn't seem to \expndtw4 be feeling it deeply. I sympathized with them. I've had experience \expndtw1 of Aunt Agatha at hotels before. Of course, the real rough work was \expndtw-1 all over when I arrived, but I could tell by the way everyone grovelled \expndtw3 before her that she had started by having her first room changed \expndtw7 because it hadn't a southern exposure and her next because it had \expndtw3 a creaking wardrobe and that she had said her say on the subject of \expndtw2 the cooking, the waiting, the chambermaiding and everything else, \expndtw7 with perfect freedom and candour. She had got the whole gang \expndtw2 nicely under control by now. The manager, a whiskered cove who looked like a bandit, simply tied himself into knots whenever she \expndtw3 looked at him.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 All this triumph had produced a sort of grim geniality in her, and \expndtw3 she was almost motherly when we met.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'I am so glad you were able to come, Bertie,' she said. 'The air \expndtw5 will do you so much good. Far better for you than spending your time in stuffy London night clubs.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw7 'Oh, ah,' I said.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'You will meet some pleasant people, too. I want to introduce you \expndtw3 to a Miss Hemmingway and her brother, who have become great \expndtw1 friends of mine. I am sure you will like Miss Hemmingway. A nice, \expndtw2 quiet girl, so different from so many of the bold girls one meets in \expndtw4 London nowadays. Her brother is curate at Chipley-in-the-Glen in Dorsetshire. He tells me they are connected with the Kent Hem-\expndtw3 mingways. A very good family. She is a charming girl.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 I had a grim foreboding of an awful doom. All this boosting was \expndtw1 so unlike Aunt Agatha, who normally is one of the most celebrated \expndtw3 right-and-left-hand knockers in London society. I felt a clammy \expndtw2 suspicion. And, by Jove, I was right.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Aline Hemmingway,' said Aunt Agatha, 'is just the girl I should \expndtw6 like to see you marry, Bertie. You ought to be thinking of getting\cf0\expndtw0  \cf1\expndtw-1 married. Marriage might make something of you. And I could not \expndtw-3 wish you a better wife than dear Aline. She would be such a good \expndtw0 influence in your life.'\cf0\par
\cf1 'Here, I say!' I chipped in at this juncture, chilled to the marrow.\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Bertie!' said Aunt Agatha, dropping the motherly manner for a \expndtw0 bit and giving me the cold eye.\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'Yes, but I say -'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-2 'It is young men like you, Bertie, who make the person with the \expndtw1 future of the race at heart despair. Cursed with too much money, you fritter away in idle selfishness a life which might have been \expndtw-3 made useful, helpful and profitable. You do nothing but waste your \expndtw-4 time on frivolous pleasures. You are simply an anti-social animal, a \expndtw0 drone. Bertie, it is imperative that you marry.'\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw7 'But, dash it all -'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Yes! You should be breeding children to - '\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 'No, really, I say, please!' I said, blushing richly. Aunt Agatha \expndtw1 belongs to two or three of these women's clubs, and she keeps \expndtw0 forgetting she isn't in the smoking-room.\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Bertie,' she resumed, and would no doubt have hauled up her \expndtw-1 slacks at some length, had we not been interrupted. 'Ah, here they \expndtw1 are!' she said. 'Aline, dear!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-3 And I perceived a girl and a chappie bearing down on me, smiling \expndtw1 in a pleased sort of manner.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'I want you to meet my nephew, Bertie Wooster,' said Aunt \expndtw1 Agatha. 'He has just arrived. Such a surprise! I had no notion that \expndtw0 he intended coming to Roville.'\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw-3 I gave the couple the wary up-and-down, feeling like a cat in the \expndtw2 middle of a lot of hounds. Sort of trapped feeling, you know what \expndtw-2 I mean. An inner voice was whispering that Bertram was up against \expndtw-8 it.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 The brother was a small round cove with a face rather like a \expndtw0 sheep. He wore pince-nez, his expression was benevolent, and he \expndtw1 had on one of those collars which button at the back.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'Welcome to Roville, Mr Wooster,' he said.\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 'Oh, Sidney!' said the girl. 'Doesn't Mr Wooster remind you of \expndtw0 Canon Blenkinsop, who came to Chipley to preach last Easter?'\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'My dear! The resemblance is most striking!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 They peered at me for a while as if I were something in a glass \expndtw3 case, and I goggled back and had a good look at the girl. There's \expndtw1 no doubt about it, she was different from what Aunt Agatha had \expndtw3 called the bold girls one meets in London nowadays. No bobbed\cf0\expndtw0  \cf1\expndtw2 hair and gaspers about \i her\\ \i0 I don't know when I've met anybody \expndtw-2 who looked so - respectable is the only word. She had on a kind of \expndtw2 plain dress, and her hair was plain, and her face was sort of mild \expndtw-1 and saint-like. I don't pretend to be a Sherlock Holmes or anything of that order, but the moment I looked at her I said to myself, 'The girl plays the organ in a village church!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-2 Well, we gazed at one another for a bit, and there was a certain \expndtw-1 amount of chit-chat, and then I tore myself away. But before I went \expndtw-2 I had been booked up to take brother and girl for a nice drive that \expndtw3 afternoon. And the thought of it depressed me to such an extent \expndtw0 that I felt there was only one thing to be done. I went straight back \expndtw-1 to my room, dug out the cummerbund, and draped it round the old \expndtw1 turn. I turned round and Jeeves shied like a startled mustang.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'I beg your pardon, sir,' he said in a sort of hushed voice. 'You \expndtw1 are surely not proposing to appear in public in that thing?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 'The cummerbund?' I said in a careless, debonair way, passing it \expndtw2 off. 'Oh, rather!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'I should not advise it, sir, really I shouldn't.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-2 'Why not?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'The effect, sir, is loud in the extreme.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-4 I tackled the blighter squarely. I mean to say, nobody knows better \expndtw1 than I do that Jeeves is a master mind and all that, but, dash it, a \expndtw-3 fellow must call his soul his own. You can't be a serf to your valet. Besides, I was feeling pretty low and the cummerbund was the only \expndtw0 thing which could cheer me up.\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'You know, the trouble with you, Jeeves,' I said, 'is that you're \expndtw0 too - what's the word I want? - too bally insular. You can't realize \expndtw-3 that you aren't in Piccadilly all the time. In a place like this a bit of \expndtw2 colour and touch of the poetic is expected of you. Why, I've just \expndtw-1 seen a fellow downstairs in a morning suit of yellow velvet.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Nevertheless, sir -'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-3 'Jeeves,' I said firmly, 'my mind is made up. I am feeling a little low-spirited and need cheering. Besides, what's wrong with it? This \expndtw1 cummerbund seems to me to be called for. I consider that it has \expndtw-1 rather a Spanish effect. A touch of the hidalgo. Sort of Vicente y \expndtw-2 Blasco What's-his-name stuff. The jolly old hidalgo off to the bull \expndtw-3 fight.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-2 'Very good, sir,' said Jeeves coldly.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-2 Dashed upsetting, this sort of thing. If there's one thing that gives \expndtw0 me the pip, it's unpleasantness in the home; and I could see that relations were going to be fairly strained for a while. And, coming\cf0  \cf1\expndtw2 on top of Aunt Agatha's bombshell about the Hemmingway girl, I \expndtw0 don't mind confessing it made me feel more or less as though nobody loved me.\cf0\par
\par
\cf1\expndtw5 The drive that afternoon was about as mouldy as I had expected. \expndtw7 The curate chappie prattled on of this and that; the girl admired \expndtw0 the view; and I got a headache early in the proceedings which started \expndtw4 at the sole of my feet and got worse all the way up. I tottered back \expndtw1 to my room to dress for dinner, feeling like a toad under the harrow. \expndtw4 If it hadn't been for that cummerbund business earlier in the day I \expndtw3 could have sobbed on Jeeves's neck and poured out all my troubles to him. Even as it was, I couldn't keep the thing entirely to myself.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'I say, Jeeves,' I said.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Sir?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Mix me a stiffish brandy and soda.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Yes, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Stiffish, Jeeves. Not too much soda, but splash the brandy about a bit.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Very good, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 After imbibing, I felt a shade better.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Jeeves,' I said.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Sir?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'I rather fancy I'm in the soup, Jeeves.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Indeed, sir?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 I eyed the man narrowly. Dashed aloof his manner was. Still brooding over the cummerbund.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Yes. Right up to the hocks,' I said, suppressing the pride of the \expndtw6 Woosters and trying to induce him to be a bit matier. 'Have you \expndtw5 seen a girl popping about here with a parson brother?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Miss Hemmingway, sir? Yes, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Aunt Agatha wants me to marry her.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Indeed, sir?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Well, what about it?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Sir?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'I mean, have you anything to suggest?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'No, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 The blighter's manner was so cold and unchummy that I bit the \expndtw5 bullet and had a dash at being airy.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Oh, well, tra-la-la!' I said.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'Precisely^ sir,' said Jeeves.\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 And that was, so to speak, that.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\par
\cf1\ul\b 4\cf0\par
\cf1 Pearls Mean Tears\cf0\par
\par
\cf1\expndtw7\ulnone\b0 I remember - it must have been when I was at school because I \expndtw2 don't go in for that sort of thing very largely nowadays - reading a \expndtw3 poem or something about something or other in which there was a \expndtw4 line which went, if I've got it rightly, 'Shades of the prison house begin to close upon the growing boy.' Well, what I'm driving at is \expndtw1 that during the next two weeks that's exactly how it was with me. I \expndtw2 mean to say, I could hear the wedding bells chiming faintly in the \expndtw1 distance and getting louder and louder every day, and how the deuce \expndtw6 to slide out of it was more than I could think. Jeeves, no doubt, \expndtw3 could have dug up a dozen brainy schemes in a couple of minutes, \expndtw4 but he was still aloof and chilly and I couldn't bring myself to ask \expndtw2 him point-blank. I mean, he could see easily enough that the young \expndtw3 master was in a bad way and, if that wasn't enough to make him \expndtw1 overlook the fact that I was still gleaming brightly about the waist\expndtw4 band, well, what it amounted to was that the old feudal spirit was \expndtw2 dead in the blighter's bosom and there was nothing to be done about \expndtw-6 it.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 It really was rummy the way the Hemmingway family had taken to \expndtw0 me. I wouldn't have said off-hand that there was anything particularly \expndtw2 fascinating about me - in fact, most people look on me as rather an ass; but there was no getting away from the fact that I went like a \expndtw8 breeze with this girl and her brother. They didn't seem happy if \expndtw5 they were away from me. I couldn't move a step, dash it, without \expndtw3 one of them popping out from somewhere and freezing on. In fact, I'd got into the habit now of retiring to my room when I wanted to \expndtw4 take it easy for a bit. I had managed to get a rather decent suite on \expndtw5 the third floor, looking down on to the promenade.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 I had gone to earth in my suite one evening and for the first time \expndtw4 that day was feeling that life wasn't so bad after all. Right through \expndtw1 the day from lunch-time I'd had the Hemmingway girl on my hands, \expndtw2 Aunt Agatha having shooed us off together immediately after the \expndtw12 midday meal. The result was, as I looked down on the lighted\cf0\expndtw0  \cf1\expndtw4 promenade and saw all the people popping happily about on their \expndtw1 way to dinner and the Casino and what not, a kind of wistful feeling \expndtw3 came over me. I couldn't help thinking how dashed happy I could \expndtw1 have contrived to be in this place if only Aunt Agatha and the other \expndtw4 blisters had been elsewhere.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw7 I heaved a sigh, and at that moment there was a knock at the \expndtw-1 door.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Someone at the door, Jeeves,' I said.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Yes, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 He opened the door, and in popped Aline Hemmingway and her \expndtw6 brother. The last persons I had expected. I really had thought that \expndtw5 I could be alone for a minute in my own room.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Oh, hallo!' I said.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Oh, Mr Wooster!' said the girl in a gasping sort of way. 'I don't know how to begin.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 Then I noticed that she appeared considerably rattled, and as for \expndtw4 the brother, he looked like a sheep with a secret sorrow.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw7 This made me sit up and take notice. I had supposed that this \expndtw6 was just a social call, but apparently something had happened to give them a jolt. Though I couldn't see why they should come to \expndtw4 me about it.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Is anything up?' I said.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Poor Sidney - it was my fault - I ought never to have let him go \expndtw5 there alone,' said the girl. Dashed agitated.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 At this point the brother, who after shedding a floppy overcoat \expndtw2 and parking his hat on a chair had been standing by wrapped in the \expndtw3 silence, gave a little cough, like a sheep caught in the mist on a mountain top.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'The fact is, Mr Wooster,' he said, 'a sad, a most deplorable thing \expndtw5 has occurred. This afternoon, while you were so kindly escorting \expndtw4 my sist-ah, I found the time hang a little heavy upon my hands and \expndtw7 I was tempted to - ah - gamble at the Casino.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw7 I looked at the man in a kindlier spirit than I had been able to \expndtw5 up to date. This evidence that he had sporting blood in his veins \expndtw2 made him seem more human, I'm bound to say. If only I'd known \expndtw7 earlier that he went in for that sort of thing, I felt that we might \expndtw4 have had a better time together.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Oh!' I said. 'Did you click?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 He sighed heavily.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'If you mean was I successful, I must answer in the negative. I rashly persisted in the view that the colour red, having appeared no\cf0\expndtw0  \cf1\expndtw2 fewer than seven times in succession, must inevitably at no distant \expndtw6 date give place to black. I was in error. I lost my little all, Mr \expndtw3 Wooster.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'Tough luck,' I said.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'I left the Casino,' proceeded the chappie, 'and returned to the \expndtw3 hotel. There I encountered one of my parishioners, a Colonel Mus-\expndtw1 grave, who chanced to be holiday-making over here. I - er - induced \expndtw8 him to cash me a cheque for one hundred pounds on my little \expndtw5 account in my London bank.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Well, that was all to the good, what?' I said, hoping to induce the \expndtw4 poor fish to look on the bright side. 'I mean, bit of luck finding someone to slip it into first crack out of the box.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'On the contrary, Mr Wooster, it did but make matters worse. I \expndtw3 burn with shame as I make the confession, but I immediately went \expndtw4 back to the Casino and lost the entire sum - this time under the \expndtw2 mistaken supposition that the colour black was, as I believe the \expndtw5 expression is, due for a run.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'I say!' I said. 'You \i are \i0 having a night out!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'And,' concluded the chappie, 'the most lamentable feature of the whole affair is that I have no funds in the bank to meet the cheque \expndtw5 when presented.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 I'm free to confess that, though I realized by this time that all this \expndtw3 was leading up to a touch and that my ear was shortly going to be bitten in no uncertain manner, my heart warmed to the poor prune. \expndtw2 Indeed, I gazed at him with no little interest and admiration. Never \expndtw3 before had I encountered a curate so genuinely all to the mustard. \expndtw0 Little as he might look like one of the lads of the village, he certainly \expndtw7 appeared to be real tabasco, and I wished he had shown me this \expndtw4 side of his character before.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Colonel Musgrave,' he went on, gulping somewhat, 'is not a man \expndtw4 who would be likely to overlook the matter. He is a hard man. He \expndtw2 will expose me to my vic-ah. My vic-ah is a hard man. In short, Mr \expndtw1 Wooster, if Colonel Musgrave presents that cheque I shall be ruined. \expndtw4 And he leaves for England tonight.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 The girl, who had been standing by biting her handkerchief and gurgling at intervals while the brother got the above off his chest, \expndtw5 now started in once more.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'Mr Wooster,' she cried, 'won't you, won't you help us? Oh, do \expndtw2 say you will! We must have the money to get back the cheque from \expndtw7 Colonel Musgrave before nine o'clock - he leaves on the nine-\expndtw6 twenty. I was at my wits' end what to do when I remembered how\cf0\expndtw0  \cf1\expndtw2 kind you had always been. Mr Wooster, will you lend Sidney the \expndtw1 money and take these as security?' And before I knew what she was \expndtw4 doing she had dived into her bag, produced a case, and opened it. \expndtw3 'My pearls,' she said. 'I don't know what they are worth - they were \expndtw8 a present from my poor father -'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw8 'Now, alas, no more -' chipped in the brother.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'But I know they must be worth ever so much more than the \expndtw3 amount we want.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 Dashed embarrassing. Made me feel like a pawnbroker. More \expndtw4 than a touch of popping the watch about the whole business.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'No, I say, really,' I protested. 'There's no need of any security, \expndtw0 you know, or any rot of that kind. Only too glad to let you have the \expndtw4 money. I've got it on me, as a matter of fact. Rather luckily drew some this morning.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 And I fished it out and pushed it across. The brother shook his \expndtw1 head.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'Mr Wooster,' he said, 'we appreciate your generosity, your beauti\expndtw5 ful, heartening confidence in us, but we cannot permit this.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'What Sidney means,' said the girl, 'is that you really don't know \expndtw2 anything about us when you come to think of it. You mustn't risk \expndtw0 lending all this money without any security at all to two people who, \expndtw2 after all, are almost strangers. If I hadn't thought that you would be quite business-like about this I would never have dared to come to \expndtw1 you.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'The idea of - er - pledging the pearls at the local Mont de Piete was, you will readily understand, repugnant to us,' said the brother.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'If you will just give me a receipt, as a matter of form -'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'Oh, right-o!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 I wrote out the receipt and handed it over, feeling more or less \expndtw3 of an ass.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'Here you are,' I said.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 The girl took the piece of paper, shoved it in her bag, grabbed \expndtw1 the money and slipped it to brother Sidney, and then, before I knew \expndtw6 what was happening, she had darted at me, kissed me, and legged \expndtw4 it from the room.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 I'm bound to say the thing rattled me. So dashed sudden and \expndtw2 unexpected. I mean, a girl like that. Always been quiet and demure \expndtw3 and what not - by no means the sort of female you'd have expected \expndtw1 to go about the place kissing fellows. Through a sort of mist I could \expndtw2 see that Jeeves had appeared from the background and was helping \expndtw6 the brother on with his coat; and I remember wondering idly how\cf0\expndtw0  \cf1\expndtw5 the dickens a man could bring himself to wear a coat like that, it \expndtw6 being more like a sack than anything else. Then the brother came up to me and grasped my hand.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'I cannot thank you sufficiently, Mr Wooster!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw7 'Oh, not at all.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'You have saved my good name. Good name in man or woman, \expndtw1 dear my lord,' he said, massaging the fin with some fervour, 'is the \expndtw3 immediate jewel of their souls. Who steals my purse steals trash. \expndtw4 'Twas mine, 'tis his, and has been slave to thousands. But he that \expndtw1 filches my good name robs me of that which enriches not him and \expndtw4 makes me poor indeed. I thank you from the bottom of my heart. \expndtw6 Good night, Mr Wooster.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'Good night, old thing,' I said.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 I blinked at Jeeves as the door shut. 'Rather a sad affair, Jeeves,' \expndtw1 I said.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Yes, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Luckily I happened to have all that money handy.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw9 'Well - er - yes, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'You speak as though you didn't think much of it.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'It is not my place to criticize your actions, sir, but I will venture \expndtw4 to say that I think you behaved a little rashly.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'What, lending that money?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Yes, sir. These fashionable French watering places are notori\expndtw3 ously infested by dishonest characters.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 This was a bit too thick.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw7 'Now look here, Jeeves,' I said. 'I can stand a lot but when it \expndtw3 comes to your casting asp-whatever-the-word-is on a bird in Holy \expndtw17 Orders -'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'Perhaps I am over-suspicious, sir. But I have seen a great deal \expndtw3 of these resorts. When I was in the employment of Lord Frederick \expndtw5 Ranelagh, shortly before I entered your service, his lordship was \expndtw-1 very neatly swindled by a criminal known, I believe, by the soubriquet \expndtw6 of Soapy Sid, who scraped acquaintance with us in Monte Carlo \expndtw4 with the assistance of a female accomplice. I have never forgotten the circumstances.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'I don't want to butt in on your reminiscences, Jeeves,' I said, coldly, 'but you're talking through your hat. How can there have \expndtw2 been anything fishy about the business? They've left me the pearls, \expndtw0 haven't they? Very well, then, think before you speak. You had better \expndtw2 be tooling down to the desk now and having these things shoved in the hotel safe.' I picked up the case and opened it. 'Oh, Great Scott!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 The bally thing was empty!\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'Oh, my Lord!' I said, staring. 'Don't tell me there's been dirty \expndtw4 work at the crossroads after all!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'Precisely, sir. It was in exactly the same manner that Lord Frederick was swindled on the occasion to which I have alluded. While his female accomplice was gratefully embracing his lordship, Soapy Sid \expndtw5 substituted a duplicate case for the one containing the pearls and \expndtw2 went off with the jewels, the money and the receipt. On the strength \expndtw7 of the receipt he subsequently demanded from his lordship the \expndtw6 return of the pearls, and his lordship, not being able to produce \expndtw0 them, was obliged to pay a heavy sum in compensation. It is a simple \expndtw4 but effective ruse.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 I felt as if the bottom had dropped out of things with a jerk.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Soapy Sid? Sid! \i Sidney! \i0 Brother Sidney! Why, by Jove, Jeeves, \expndtw4 do you think that parson was Soapy Sid?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-4 'Yes, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'But it seems extraordinary. Why, his collar buttoned at the back \expndtw3 - I mean, he would have deceived a bishop. Do you really think he \expndtw2 was Soapy Sid?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Yes, sir. I recognized him directly he came into the room.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 I stared at the blighter.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'You recognized him?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Yes, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Then, dash it all,' I said, deeply moved. 'I think you might have \expndtw4 told me.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'I thought it would save disturbance and unpleasantness if I merely \expndtw2 extracted the case from the man's pocket as I assisted him with his \expndtw6 coat, sir. Here it is.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw7 He laid another case on the table beside the dud one, and, by \expndtw4 Jove, you couldn't tell them apart. I opened it, and there were the \expndtw5 good old pearls, as merry and bright as dammit, smiling up at me. \expndtw3 I gazed feebly at the man. I was feeling a bit overwrought.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Jeeves,' I said. 'You're an absolute genius!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Yes, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 Relief was surging over me in great chunks by now. Thanks to \expndtw2 Jeeves I was not going to be called on to cough up several thousand \expndtw0 quid.\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'It looks to me as though you have saved the old home. I mean, \expndtw2 even a chappie endowed with the immortal rind of dear old Sid is \expndtw1 hardly likely to have the nerve to come back and retrieve these little \expndtw3 chaps.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'I should imagine not, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Well, then - Oh, I say, you don't think they are just paste or \expndtw1 anything like that?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'No, sir. These are genuine pearls and extremely valuable.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Well, then, dash it, I'm on velvet. Absolutely reclining on the \expndtw4 good old plush! I may be down a hundred quid but I'm up a jolly good string of pearls. Am I right or wrong?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Hardly that, sir. I think that you will have to restore the pearls.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'What! To Sid? Not while I have my physique!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'No, sir. To their rightful owner.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'But who is their rightful owner?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw7 'Mrs Gregson, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'What! How do you know?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'It was all over the hotel an hour ago that Mrs Gregson's pearls \expndtw3 had been abstracted. I was speaking to Mrs Gregson's maid shortly \expndtw5 before you came in and she informed me that the manager of the \expndtw6 hotel is now in Mrs Gregson's suite.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'And having a devil of a time, what?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'So I should be disposed to imagine, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 The situation was beginning to unfold before me.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'I'll go and give them back to her, eh? It'll put me one up, what?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Precisely, sir. And, if I may make the suggestion, I think it might \expndtw4 be judicious to stress the fact that they were stolen by-.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw8 'Great Scott! By the dashed girl she was hounding me on to \expndtw0 marry; by Jove!'\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Exactly, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Jeeves,' I said, 'this is going to be the biggest score off my jolly \expndtw4 old relative that has ever occurred in the world's history.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'It is not unlikely, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Keep her quiet for a bit, what? Make her stop snootering me for \expndtw-1 a while?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'It should have that effect, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Golly!' I said, bounding for the door.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\par
\cf1\expndtw4 Long before I reached Aunt Agatha's lair I could tell that the hunt \expndtw3 was up. Divers chappies in hotel uniform and not a few chambermaids of sorts were hanging about in the corridor, and through the \expndtw0 panels I could hear a mixed assortment of voices, with Aunt Agatha's \expndtw4 topping the lot. I knocked but no one took any notice, so I trickled \expndtw2 in. Among those present I noticed a chambermaid in hysterics, Aunt\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 Agatha with her hair bristling and the whiskered cove who looked \expndtw3 like a bandit, the hotel manager fellow.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Oh, hallo!' I said. 'Hallo-allo-allo!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 Aunt Agatha shooshed me away. No welcoming smile for Bertram.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw7 'Don't bother me now, Bertie,' she snapped, looking at me as if \expndtw5 I were more or less the last straw.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Something up?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Yes, yes, yes! I've lost my pearls.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Pearls? Pearls? Pearls?' I said. 'No, really. Dashed annoying. Where did you see them last?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'What does it matter where I saw them last? They have been \expndtw2 stolen.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 Here Wilfred the Whisker King, who seemed to have been taking \expndtw2 a rest between rounds, stepped into the ring again and began to talk \expndtw4 rapidly in French. Cut to the quick he seemed. The chambermaid \expndtw5 whooped in the corner.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Sure you've looked everywhere?' I said.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Of course I've looked everywhere.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'Well, you know, I've often lost a collar stud and -'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Do try not to be so maddening, Bertie! I have enough to bear \expndtw5 without your imbecilities. Oh, be quiet! Be quiet!' she shouted in the sort of voice used by sergeant-majors and those who call the \expndtw3 cattle home across the Sands of Dee. And such was the magnetism \expndtw5 of her forceful personality that Wilfred subsided as if he had run into a wall. The chambermaid continued to go strong.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'I say,' I said, 'I think there's something the matter with this girl. Isn't she crying or something? You may not have spotted it, but I'm \expndtw4 rather quick at noticing things.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'She stole my pearls! I am convinced of it.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 This started the whisker specialist off again, and in about a couple \expndtw2 of minutes Aunt Agatha had reached the frozen grande-dame stage \expndtw3 and was putting the last of the bandits through it in the voice she usually reserves for snubbing waiters in restaurants.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw7 'I tell you, my good man, for the hundredth time -'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw8 'I say,' I said, 'don't want to interrupt you and all that sort of \expndtw5 thing, but these aren't the little chaps by any chance, are they?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 I pulled the pearls out of my pocket and held them up.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'These look like pearls, what?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 I don't know when I've had a more juicy moment. It was one of \expndtw4 those occasions about which I shall prattle to my grandchildren - if \expndtw3 I ever have any, which at the moment of going to press seems more\cf0\expndtw0  \cf1\expndtw1 or less of a hundred-to-one shot. Aunt Agatha simply deflated before \expndtw2 my eyes. It reminded me of when I once saw some chappies letting \expndtw4 the gas out of a balloon.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw10 'Where - where - where -' she gurgled.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'I got them from your friend, Miss Hemmingway.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 Even now she didn't get it.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'From Miss Hemmingway. Miss \i Hemmingwayl \i0 But - but how did \expndtw3 they come into her possession?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'How?' I said. 'Because she jolly well stole them. Pinched them! \expndtw4 Swiped them! Because that's how she makes her living, dash it -\expndtw0 palling up to unsuspicious people in hotels and sneaking their jewel\expndtw2 lery. I don't know what her alias is, but her bally brother, the chap \expndtw5 whose collar buttons at the back, is known in criminal circles as \expndtw3 Soapy Sid.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 She blinked.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw11 'Miss Hemmingway a thief! I - I-' She stopped and looked \expndtw1 feebly at me. 'But how did you manage to recover the pearls, Bertie \expndtw0 dear?'\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Never mind,' I said crisply. 'I have my methods.' I dug out my entire stock of manly courage, breathed a short prayer and let her have it right in the thorax.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'I must say, Aunt Agatha, dash it all,' I said severely, 'I think you \expndtw5 have been infernally careless. There's a printed notice in every bedroom in this place saying that there's a safe in the manager's \expndtw0 office, where jewellery and valuables ought to be placed, and you \expndtw2 absolutely disregarded it. And what's the result? The first thief who \expndtw1 came along simply walked into your room and pinched your pearls. And instead of admitting that it was all your fault, you started biting \expndtw4 this poor man here in the gizzard. You have been very, very unjust \expndtw5 to this poor man.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Yes, yes,' moaned the poor man.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'And this unfortunate girl, what about her? Where does she get \expndtw4 off? You've accused her of stealing the things on absolutely no \expndtw2 evidence. I think she would be jolly well advised to bring an action \expndtw5 for - for whatever it is and soak you for substantial damages.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3\i 'Mais oui, mais ouis, c'est trap fortf \i0 shouted the Bandit Chief, \expndtw2 backing me up like a good 'un. And the chambermaid looked up \expndtw4 inquiringly, as if the sun was breaking through the clouds.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'I shall recompense her,' said Aunt Agatha feebly.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'If you take my tip you jolly well will, and that eftsoons or right \expndtw9 speedily. She's got a cast-iron case, and if I were her I wouldn't\cf0\expndtw0  \cf1\expndtw3 take a penny under twenty quid. But what gives me the pip most is \expndtw2 the way you've unjustly abused this poor man here and tried to give \expndtw10 his hotel a bad name -'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Yes, by damn! It's too bad! cried the whiskered marvel. 'You \expndtw2 careless old woman! You give my hotel bad names, would you or \expndtw4 wasn't it? Tomorrow you leave my hotel, by great Scotland!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 And more to the same effect, all good, ripe stuff. And presently having said his say he withdrew, taking the chambermaid with him, \expndtw3 the latter with a crisp tenner clutched in a vice-like grip. I suppose \expndtw2 she and the bandit split it outside. A French hotel manager wouldn't \expndtw1 be likely to let real money wander away from him without counting \expndtw3 himself in on the division.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 I turned to Aunt Agatha, whose demeanour was now rather like \expndtw1 that of one who, picking daisies on the railway, has just caught the \expndtw4 down express in the small of the back.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'I don't want to rub it in, Aunt Agatha,' I said coldly, 'but I should \expndtw5 just like to point out before I go that the girl who stole your pearls is the girl you've been hounding me on to marry ever since I got \expndtw6 here. Good heavens! Do you realize that if you had brought the thing off I should probably have had children who would have \expndtw4 sneaked my watch while I was dandling them on my knee? I'm not \expndtw6 a complaining sort of chap as a rule, but I must say that another \expndtw1 time I do think you might be more careful how you go about egging \expndtw5 me on to marry females.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 I gave her one look, turned on my heel and left the room.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Ten o'clock, a clear night, and all's well, Jeeves,' I said, breezing back into the good old suite.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'I am gratified to hear it, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'If twenty quid would be any use to you, Jeeves -'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'I am much obliged, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw7 There was a pause. And then - well, it was a wrench, but I did \expndtw6 it. I unstripped the cummerbund and handed it over.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Do you wish me to press this, sir?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 I gave the thing one last, longing look. It had been very dear to \expndtw-1 me.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'No,' I said, 'take it away; give it to the deserving poor - I shall \expndtw3 never wear it again.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Thank you very much, sir,' said Jeeves.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\par
\cf1\ul\b\f1 5\cf0\f0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 The Pride of the Woosters is \expndtw-2 Wounded\cf0\expndtw0\ulnone\b0\par
\par
\cf1\expndtw7 If there's one thing I like, it's a quiet life. I'm not one of those \expndtw2 fellows who get all restless and depressed if things aren't happening \expndtw1 to them all the time. You can't make it too placid for me. Give me \expndtw2 regular meals, a good show with decent music every now and then, \expndtw6 and one or two pals to totter round with, and I ask no more.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 That is why the jar, when it came, was such a particularly nasty \expndtw7 jar. I mean, I'd returned from Roville with a sort of feeling that \expndtw5 from now on nothing could occur to upset me. Aunt Agatha, I \expndtw1 imagined, would require at least a year to recover from the Hem-\expndtw0 mingway affair: and apart from Aunt Agatha there isn't anybody who \expndtw5 really does much in the way of harrying me. It seemed to me that the skies were blue, so to speak, and no clouds in sight.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw7 I little thought... Well, look here, what happened was this, and \expndtw4 I ask you if it wasn't enough to rattle anybody.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 Once a year Jeeves takes a couple of weeks' vacation and biffs off \expndtw3 to the sea or somewhere to restore his tissues. Pretty rotten for me, \expndtw5 of course, while he's away. But it has to be stuck, so I stick it; and \expndtw2 I must admit that he usually manages to get hold of a fairly decent \expndtw3 fellow to look after me in his absence.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw7 Well, the time had come round again, and Jeeves was in the \expndtw1 kitchen giving the understudy a few tips about his duties. I happened \expndtw5 to want a stamp or something, and I toddled down the passage to \expndtw4 ask him for it. The silly ass had left the kitchen door open, and I \expndtw3 hadn't gone two steps when his voice caught me squarely in the eardrum.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'You will find Mr Wooster,' he was saying to the substitute chappie, 'an exceedingly pleasant and amiable young gentleman, but not \expndtw0 intelligent. By no means intelligent. Mentally he is negligible - quite negligible.'\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 Well, I mean to say, what!\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 I suppose, strictly speaking, I ought to have charged in and ticked \expndtw2 the blighter off properly in no uncertain voice. But I doubt whether \expndtw0 it's humanly possible to tick Jeeves off. Personally, I didn't even have \expndtw1 a dash at it. I merely called for my hat and stick in a marked manner \expndtw4 and legged it. But the memory rankled, if you know what I mean. \expndtw1 We Woosters do not lightly forget. At least, we do - some things -\expndtw6 appointments, and people's birthdays, and letters to post, and all \expndtw3 that - but not an absolute bally insult like the above. I brooded like \expndtw2 the dickens.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 I was still brooding when I dropped in at the oyster-bar at Buck's \expndtw7 for a quick bracer. I needed a bracer rather particularly at the \expndtw3 moment, because I was on my way to lunch with Aunt Agatha. A \expndtw1 pretty frightful ordeal, believe me or believe me not, even though I \expndtw4 took it that after what had happened at Roville she would be in a \expndtw5 fairly subdued and amiable mood. I had just had one quick and \expndtw6 another rather slower, and was feeling about as cheerio as was \expndtw1 possible under the circs, when a muffled voice hailed me from the \expndtw6 north-east, and, turning round, I saw young Bingo Little propped \expndtw4 up in a corner, wrapping himself round a sizeable chunk of bread \expndtw3 and cheese.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Hallo-allo-allo!' I said. 'Haven't seen you for ages. You've not \expndtw3 been in here lately, have you?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'No. I've been living out in the country.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Eh?' I said, for Bingo's loathing for the country was well known. \expndtw2 'Whereabouts?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'Down in Hampshire, at a place called Ditteredge.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'No, really? I know some people who've got a house there. The \expndtw4 Glossops. Have you met them?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Why, that's where I'm staying!' said young Bingo. 'I'm tutoring the Glossop kid.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'What for?' I said. I couldn't seem to see young Bingo as a tutor. \expndtw4 Though, of course, he did get a degree of sorts at Oxford, and I suppose you can always fool some of the people some of the time.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'What for? For money, of course! An absolute sitter came un\expndtw6 stitched in the second race at Haydock Park,' said young Bingo, \expndtw5 with some bitterness, 'and I dropped my entire month's allowance. \expndtw4 I hadn't the nerve to touch my uncle for any more, so it was a case \expndtw5 of buzzing round to the agents and getting a job. I've been down there three weeks.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'I haven't met the Glossop kid.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Don't!' advised Bingo, briefly.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'The only one of the family I really know is the girl.' I had hardly \expndtw2 spoken these words when the most extraordinary change came over \expndtw3 young Bhigo's face. His eyes bulged, his cheeks flushed, and his Adam's apple hopped about like one of those india-rubber balls on \expndtw4 the top of the fountain in a shooting-gallery.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Oh, Bertie!' he said, in a strangled sort of voice.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 I looked at the poor fish anxiously. I knew that he was always \expndtw5 falling in love with someone, but it didn't seem possible that even \expndtw4 he could have fallen in love with Honoria Glossop. To me the girl \expndtw1 was simply nothing more nor less than a pot of poison. One of those \expndtw3 dashed large, brainy, strenuous, dynamic girls you see so many of these days. She had been at Girton, where, in addition to enlarging \expndtw1 her brain to the most frightful extent, she had gone in for every kind \expndtw2 of sport and developed the physique of a middle-weight catch-as-catch-can wrestler. I'm not sure she didn't box for the Varsity while \expndtw5 she was up. The effect she had on me whenever she appeared was \expndtw4 to make me want to slide into a cellar and lie low till they blew the\cf0\expndtw0  \cf1\expndtw1 All Clear.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 Yet here was young Bingo obviously all for her. There was no \expndtw4 mistaking it. The love light was in the blighter's eyes.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'I worship her, Bertie! I worship the very ground she treads on!' \expndtw4 continued the patient, in a loud, penetrating voice. Fred Thompson \expndtw5 and one or two fellows had come hi, and McGarry, the chappie \expndtw3 behind the bar, was listening with his ears flapping. But there's no \expndtw7 reticence about Bingo. He always reminds me of the hero of a \expndtw2 musical comedy who takes the centre of the stage, gathers the boys \expndtw3 round him in a circle, and tells them all about his love at the top of \expndtw0 his voice.\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Have you told her?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'No, I haven't the nerve. But we walk together in the garden most \expndtw6 evenings, and it sometimes seems to me that there is a look in her\cf0\expndtw0  \cf1\expndtw-1 eyes.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'I know that look. Like a sergeant-major.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'Nothing of the kind! Like a tender goddess.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw8 'Half a second, old thing,' I said. 'Are you sure we're talking \expndtw4 about the same girl? The one I mean is Honoria. Perhaps there's a \expndtw5 younger sister or something I've not heard of?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Her name is Honoria,' bawled Bingo reverently.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'And she strikes you as a tender goddess?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw7 'She does.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'God bless you!' I said.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-3 'She walks in beauty like the night of cloudless climes and starry \expndtw1 skies; and all that's best of dark and bright meet in her aspect and \expndtw-2 her eyes. Another bit of bread and cheese,' he said to the lad behind \expndtw-1 the bar.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'You're keeping your strength up,' I said.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 'This is my lunch. I've got to meet Oswald at Waterloo at one-\expndtw-3 fifteen, to catch the train back. I brought him up to town to see the \expndtw-1 dentist.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'Oswald? Is that the kid?'\cf0\par
\cf1 'Yes. Pestilential to a degree.'\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw-4 'Pestilential! That reminds me, I'm lunching with my Aunt Agatha. \expndtw1 I'll have to pop off now, or I'll be late.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 I hadn't seen Aunt Agatha since that little affair of the pearls; \expndtw-4 and, while I didn't anticipate any great pleasure from gnawing a bone \expndtw-2 in her society, I must say that there was one topic of conversation I felt pretty confident she wouldn't touch on, and that was the subject \expndtw-3 of my matrimonial future. I mean, when a woman's made a bloomer \expndtw-2 like the one Aunt Agatha made at Roville, you'd naturally think that \expndtw2 a decent shame would keep her off it for, at any rate, a month or \expndtw-11 two.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-4 But women beat me. I mean to say, as regards nerve. You'll hardly \expndtw-2 credit it, but she actually started in on me with the fish. Absolutely \expndtw-4 with the fish, I give you my solemn word. We'd hardly exchanged a \expndtw1 word about the weather, when she let me have it without a blush.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-2 'Bertie,' she said, 'I've been thinking again about you and how necessary it is that you should get married. I quite admit that I was \expndtw-1 dreadfully mistaken in my opinion of that terrible, hypocritical girl \expndtw3 at Roville, but this time there is no danger of an error. By great \expndtw0 good luck I have found the very wife for you, a girl whom I have only recently met, but whose family is above suspicion. She has \expndtw-2 plenty of money, too, though that does not matter in your case. The great point is that she is strong, self-reliant and sensible, and will counterbalance the deficiencies and weaknesses of your character. \expndtw-3 She has met you; and, while there is naturally much in you of which \expndtw-2 she disapproves, she does not dislike you. I know this, for I have \expndtw2 sounded her - guardedly, of course - and I am sure you have only \expndtw1 to make the first advance - '\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 'Who is it?' I would have said it long before, but the shock had \expndtw-3 made me swallow a bit of roll the wrong way, and I had only just \expndtw1 finished turning purple and trying to get a bit of air back into the \expndtw-1 old windpipe. 'Who is it?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Sir Roderick Glossop's daughter, Honoria.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'No, no!' I cried, paling beneath the tan.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Don't be silly, Bertie. She is just the wife for you.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Yes, but look here -'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'She will mould you.'\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'But I don't want to be moulded.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 Aunt Agatha gave me the land of look she used to give me when \expndtw2 I was a kid and had been found in the jam cupboard.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Bertie! I hope you are not going to be troublesome.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw7 'Well, but I mean -'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Lady Glossop has very kindly invited you to Ditteredge Hall \expndtw-3 for a few days. I told her you would be delighted to come down tomorrow.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-3 'I'm sorry, but I've got a dashed important engagement tomorrow.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 'What engagement?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw34 'Well-er-'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-2 'You have no engagement. And, even if you had, you must put it \expndtw-3 off. I shall be very seriously annoyed, Bertie, if you do not go to \expndtw0 Ditteredge Hall tomorrow.'\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Oh, right-o!' I said.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-2 It wasn't two minutes after I had parted from Aunt Agatha before \expndtw0 the old fighting spirit of the Woosters reasserted itself. Ghastly as \expndtw-3 the peril was which loomed before me, I was conscious of a rummy \expndtw0 sort of exhilaration. It was a tight corner, but the tighter the corner, I felt, the more juicily should I score off Jeeves when I got myself \expndtw1 out of it without a bit of help from him. Ordinarily, of course, I \expndtw-3 should have consulted him and trusted to him to solve the difficulty; \expndtw1 but after what I had heard him saying in the kitchen, I was dashed \expndtw-2 if I was going to demean myself. When I got home I addressed the \expndtw-1 man with light abandon.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Jeeves,' I said, 'I'm in a bit of a difficulty.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'I'm sorry to hear that, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-2 'Yes, quite a bad hole. In fact, you might say on the brink of a \expndtw0 precipice, and faced by an awful doom.'\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'If I could be of any assistance, sir -\par
'Oh, no. No, no. Thanks very much, but no, no. I won't trouble \expndtw1 you. I've no doubt I shall be able to get out of it by myself.' \par
'\expndtw-1 Very good, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-2 So that was that. I'm bound to say I'd have welcomed a bit more \expndtw-1 curiosity from the fellow, but that is Jeeves all over. Cloaks his emotions, if you know what I mean.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 Honoria was away when I got to Ditteredge on the following \expndtw7 afternoon. Her mother told me that she was staying with some \expndtw1 people named Braythwayt in the neighbourhood, and would be back \expndtw6 next day, bringing the daughter of the house with her for a visit. \expndtw5 She said I would find Oswald out in the grounds, and such is a \expndtw2 mother's love that she spoke as if that were a bit of a boost for the \expndtw6 grounds and an inducement to go there.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw7 Rather decent, the grounds at Ditteredge. A couple of terraces, \expndtw6 a bit of lawn with a cedar on it, a bit of shrubbery, and finally a \expndtw0 small but goodish lake with a stone bridge running across it. Directly \expndtw5 I'd worked my way round the shrubbery I spotted young Bingo \expndtw2 leaning against the bridge smoking a cigarette. Sitting on the stone\expndtw0 work, fishing, was a species of kid whom I took to be Oswald the \expndtw2 Plague-Spot.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 Bingo was both surprised and delighted to see me, and introduced \expndtw5 me to the kid. If the latter was surprised and delighted too, he \expndtw2 concealed it like a diplomat. He just looked at me, raised his eye\expndtw0 brows slightly, and went on fishing. He was one of those supercilious \expndtw1 striplings who give you the impression that you went to the wrong \expndtw4 school and that your clothes don't fit.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'This is Oswald,' said Bingo.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'What,' I replied cordially, 'could be sweeter? How are you?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Oh, all right,' said the kid.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Nice place, mis.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Oh, all right,' said the kid.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Having a good time fishing?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Oh, all right,' said the kid.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 Young Bingo led me off to commune apart.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Doesn't jolly old Oswald's incessant flow of prattle make your head ache sometimes?' I asked.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 Bingo sighed.\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw7 'It's a hard job.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'What's a hard job?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Loving him.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Do you love him?' I asked, surprised. I shouldn't have thought it \expndtw4 could be done.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'I try to,' said young Bingo, 'for Her sake. She's coming back tomorrow, Bertie.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw8 'So I heard.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'She is coming, my love, my own -'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'Absolutely,' I said. 'But touching on young Oswald once more.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 Do you have to be with him all day? How do you manage to stick\cf0\expndtw0  \cf1\expndtw-4 it?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'Oh, he doesn't give much trouble. When we aren't working he \expndtw5 sits on that bridge all the time, trying to catch tiddlers.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Why don't you shove him in?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Shove him in?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'It seems to me distinctly the thing to do,' I said, regarding the \expndtw5 stripling's back with a good deal of dislike. 'It would wake him up a bit, and make him take an interest in things.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 Bingo shook his head a bit wistfully.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Your proposition attracts me,' he said, 'but I'm afraid it can't be \expndtw3 done. You see, She would never forgive me. She is devoted to the \expndtw4 little brute.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Great Scott!' I cried. 'I've got it!' I don't know if you know that \expndtw1 feeling when you get an inspiration, and tingle all down your spine from the soft collar as now worn to the very soles of the old Wauk-\expndtw2 eesis? Jeeves, I suppose, feels that way more or less all the time, but \expndtw7 it isn't often it comes to me. But now all Nature seemed to be \expndtw1 shouting at me. 'You've clicked!' and I grabbed young Bingo by the \expndtw2 arm in a way that must have made him feel as if a horse had bitten \expndtw1 him. His finely-chiselled features were twisted with agony and what \expndtw5 not, and he asked me what the dickens I thought I was playing at.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Bingo,' I said, 'what would Jeeves have done?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'How do you mean, what would Jeeves have done?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'I mean what would he have advised in a case like yours? I mean \expndtw1 you wanting to make a hit with Honoria Glossop and all that. Why, \expndtw4 take it from me, he would have shoved you behind that clump of \expndtw2 bushes over there; he would have got me to lure Honoria on to the \expndtw6 bridge somehow; then, at the proper time, he would have told me \expndtw4 to give the kid a pretty hefty jab in the small of the back, so as to shoot him into the water; and then you would have dived in and \expndtw5 hauled him out. How about it?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'You didn't think that out by yourself, Bertie?' said young Bingo, \expndtw4 in a hushed sort of voice.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Yes, I did. Jeeves isn't the only fellow with ideas.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'But it's absolutely wonderful.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Just a suggestion.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw9 'The only objection I can see is that it would be so dashed \expndtw3 awkward for you. I mean to say, suppose the kid turned round and \expndtw0 said you had shoved him in, that would make you frightfully unpopu\expndtw6 lar with Her.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'I don't mind risking that.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 The man was deeply moved.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Bertie, this is noble.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw8 'No, no.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 He clasped my hand silently, then chuckled like the last drop of \expndtw4 water going down the waste pipe in a bath.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Now what?' I said.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 'I was only thinking,' said young Bingo, 'how fearfully wet Oswald \expndtw3 will get. Oh, happy day!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\par
\cf1\ul\b 6\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw7 The Hero's Reward\cf0\expndtw0\ulnone\b0\par
\par
\cf1\expndtw2 I don't know if you've noticed it, but it's rummy how nothing in this world ever seems to be absolutely perfect. The drawback to this \expndtw1 otherwise singularly fruity binge was, of course, the fact that Jeeves \expndtw3 wouldn't be on the spot to watch me in action. Still, apart from that \expndtw7 there wasn't a flaw. The beauty of the thing was, you see, that \expndtw5 nothing could possibly go wrong. You know how it is, as a rule, \expndtw4 when you want to get Chappie A on Spot B at exactly the same \expndtw5 moment when Chappie C is on Spot D. There's always a chance of a hitch. Take the case of a general, I mean to say, who's planning \expndtw4 out a big movement. He tells one regiment to capture the hill with \expndtw3 the windmill on it at the exact moment when another regiment is \expndtw1 taking the bridgehead or something down in the valley; and every\expndtw3 thing gets all messed up. And then, when they're chatting the thing \expndtw2 over in camp that night, the colonel of the first regiment says, 'Oh, \expndtw0 sorry! Did you say the hill with the windmill? I thought you said the \expndtw2 one with the flock of sheep?' And there you are! But in this case, \expndtw5 nothing like that could happen, because Oswald and Bingo would \expndtw7 be on the spot right along, so that all I had to worry about was \expndtw3 getting Honoria there in due season. And I managed that all right, \expndtw1 first shot, by asking her if she would come for a stroll in the grounds \expndtw5 with me, as I had something particular to say to her.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 She had arrived shortly after lunch in the car with the Braythwayt \expndtw3 girl. I was introduced to the latter, a tallish girl with blue eyes and \expndtw7 fair hair. I rather took to her - she was so unlike Honoria - and, if \expndtw6 I had been able to spare the time, I shouldn't have minded talking \expndtw3 to her for a bit. But business was business - I had fixed it up with \expndtw8 Bingo to be behind the bushes at three sharp, so I got hold of \expndtw7 Honoria and steered her out through the grounds in the direction \expndtw2 of the lake.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'You're very quiet, Mr Wooster,' she said.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 Made me jump a bit. I was concentrating pretty tensely at the \expndtw6 moment. We had just come in sight of the lake, and I was casting\cf0\expndtw0  \cf1\expndtw-1 a keen eye over the ground to see that everything was in order. \expndtw-4 Everything appeared to be as arranged. The kid Oswald was hunched \expndtw-1 up on the bridge; and, as Bingo wasn't visible, I took it that he had \expndtw0 got into position. My watch made it two minutes after the hour.\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Eh?' I said. 'Oh, ah, yes. I was just thinking.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'You said you had something important to say to me.'\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Absolutely!' I had decided to open the proceedings by sort of \expndtw-4 paving the way for young Bingo. I mean to say, without actually \expndtw2 mentioning his name, I wanted to prepare the girl's mind for the \expndtw-1 fact that, surprising as it might seem, mere was someone who had \expndtw3 long loved her from afar and all that sort of rot. 'It's like this,' I \expndtw-2 said. 'It may sound rummy and all that, but there's somebody who's \expndtw1 frightfully in love with you and so forth - a friend of mine, you \expndtw-4 know.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Oh, a friend of yours?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-2 'Yes.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 She gave a kind of a laugh.\cf0\par
\cf1 'Well, why doesn't he tell me so?'\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 'Well, you see, that's the sort of chap he is. Kind of shrinking, \expndtw-2 diffident kind of fellow. Hasn't got the nerve. Thinks you so much \expndtw-1 above him, don't you know. Looks on you as a sort of goddess. \expndtw2 Worships the ground you tread on, but can't whack up the ginger \expndtw0 to tell you so.'\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'This is very interesting.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-2 'Yes. He's not a bad chap, you know, in his way. Rather an ass, \expndtw-1 perhaps, but well-meaning. Well, that's the posish. You might just \expndtw0 bear it in mind, what?'\cf0\par
\cf1 'How funny you are!'\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 She chucked back her head and laughed with considerable vim. \expndtw2 She had a penetrating sort of laugh. Rather like a train going into \expndtw-1 a tunnel. It didn't sound over-musical to me, and on the kid Oswald \expndtw1 it appeared to jar not a little. He gazed at us with a good deal of \expndtw-7 dislike.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-2 'I wish the dickens you wouldn't make that row,' he said. 'Scaring all the fish away.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 It broke the spell a bit. Honoria changed the subject.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 'I do wish Oswald wouldn't sit on the bridge like that,' she said. \expndtw2 Tm sure it isn't safe. He might easily fall in.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'I'll go and tell him,' I said.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\par
\cf1 I suppose the distance between the kid and me at this juncture was\cf0  \cf1\expndtw3 about five yards, but I got the impression that it was nearer a \expndtw0 hundred. And, as I started to toddle across the intervening space, I \expndtw-1 had a rummy feeling that I'd done this very thing before. Then I remembered. Years ago, at a country-house party, I had been roped in to play the part of a butler in some amateur theatricals in aid of \expndtw-3 some ghastly charity or other; and I had had to open the proceedings \expndtw0 by walking across the empty stage from left upper entrance and shoving a tray on a table down right. They had impressed it on me at rehearsals that I mustn't take the course at a quick heel-and-toe, \expndtw1 like a chappie finishing strongly in a walking-race; and the result \expndtw-1 was that I kept the brakes on to such an extent that it seemed to me \expndtw1 as if I was never going to get to the bally table at all. The stage \expndtw3 seemed to stretch out in front of me like a trackless desert, and \expndtw-2 there was a kind of breathless hush as if all Nature had paused to concentrate its attention on me personally. Well, I felt just like that \expndtw-3 now. I had a kind of dry gulping in my throat, and the more I walked the farther away the kid seemed to get, till suddenly I found myself \expndtw0 standing just behind him without quite knowing how I'd got there.\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Hallo!' I said, with a sickly sort of grin - wasted on the kid, \expndtw-1 because he didn't bother to turn round and look at me. He merely wiggled his left ear in a rather peevish manner. I don't know when \expndtw0 I've met anybody in whose life I appeared to mean so little.\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Hallo!' I said. 'Fishing?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 I laid my hand in a sort of elderly-brotherly way on his shoulder.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Here, look out!' said the kid, wobbling on his foundations.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-2 It was one of those things that want doing quickly or not at all. I \expndtw-1 shut my eyes and pushed. Something seemed to give. There was a \expndtw2 scrambling sound, a kind of yelp, a scream in the offing, and a \expndtw0 splash. And so the long day wore on, so to speak.\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 I opened my eyes. The kid was just coming to the surface.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-2 'Help!' I shouted, cocking an eye on the bush from which young \expndtw-1 Bingo was scheduled to emerge.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 Nothing happened. Young Bingo didn't emerge to the slightest \expndtw-3 extent whatever.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'I say! Help!' I shouted again.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 I don't want to bore you with reminiscences of my theatrical \expndtw-1 career, but I must just touch once more on that appearance of mine \expndtw3 as the butler. The scheme on that occasion had been that when I \expndtw-1 put the tray on the table the heroine would come on and say a few \expndtw-2 words to get me off. Well, on the night the misguided female forgot \expndtw-1 to stand by, and it was a full minute before the search-party located\cf0\expndtw0  \cf1\expndtw1 her and shot her on to the stage. And all that time I had to stand \expndtw-3 there, waiting. A rotten sensation, believe me, and this was just the \expndtw0 same, only worse. I understood what these writer-chappies mean \expndtw-1 when they talk about time standing still.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-3 Meanwhile, the kid Oswald was presumably being cut off in his \expndtw1 prime, and it began to seem to me that some sort of steps ought to \expndtw0 be taken about it. What I had seen of the lad hadn't particularly \expndtw1 endeared him to me, but it was undoubtedly a bit thick to let him pass away. I don't know when I have seen anything more grubby \expndtw2 and unpleasant than the lake as viewed from the bridge; but the \expndtw-3 thing apparently had to be done. I chucked off my coat and vaulted \expndtw-9 over.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 It seems rummy that water should be so much wetter when you go into it with your clothes on than when you're just bathing, but \expndtw-2 take it from me that it is. I was only under about three seconds, I \expndtw1 suppose, but I came up feeling like the bodies you read of in the \expndtw-1 paper which 'had evidently been in the water several days'. I felt \expndtw-2 clammy and bloated.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-2 At this point the scenario struck another snag. I had assumed that \expndtw-1 directly I came to the surface I should get hold of the kid and steer \expndtw3 him courageously to shore. But he hadn't waited to be steered. \expndtw0 When I had finished getting the water out of my eyes and had time \expndtw-3 to look round, I saw him about ten yards away, going strongly and \expndtw-2 using, I think, the Australian crawl. The spectacle took all the heart \expndtw-3 out of me. I mean to say, the whole essence of a rescue, if you know \expndtw2 what I mean, is that the party of the second part shall keep fairly \expndtw-2 still and on one spot. If he starts swimming off on his own account \expndtw-4 and can obviously give you at least forty yards in the hundred, where \expndtw1 are you? The whole thing falls through. It didn't seem to me that there was much to be done except get ashore, so I got ashore. By \expndtw2 the time I had landed, the kid was half-way to the house. Look at \expndtw-1 it from whatever angle you like, the thing was a wash-out.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 I was interrupted in my meditations by a noise like the Scotch \expndtw-2 express going under a bridge. It was Honoria Glossop laughing. She \expndtw-1 was standing at my elbow, looking at me in a rummy manner.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'Oh, Bertie, you are funny!' she said. And even in that moment \expndtw-1 there seemed to me something sinister in the words. She had never called me anything except 'Mr Wooster' before. 'How wet you are!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Yes, I am wet.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'You had better hurry into the house and change.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-3 'Yes.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 I wrung a gallon or two of water out of my clothes.\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw-3 'You \i are \i0 funny!' she said again. 'First proposing in that extraordi\expndtw-2 nary roundabout way, and then pushing poor little Oswald into the \expndtw0 lake so as to impress me by saving him.'\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw-3 I managed to get the water out of my throat sufficiently to try to \expndtw-1 correct this fearful impression.\expndtw2 'No, no!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'He said you pushed him in, and I saw you do it. Oh, I'm not \expndtw-2 angry, Bertie. I think it was too sweet of you. But I'm quite sure it's \expndtw0 time that I took you in hand. You certainly want someone to look \expndtw-3 after you. You've been seeing too many moving-pictures. I suppose \expndtw2 the next thing you would have done would have been to set the \expndtw-2 house on fire so as to rescue me.' She looked at me in a proprietary \expndtw2 sort of way. 'I think,' she said, 'I shall be able to make something \expndtw3 of you, Bertie. It is true yours has been a wasted life up to the \expndtw1 present, but you are still young, and there is a lot of good in you.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'No, really there isn't.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Oh, yes, there is. It simply wants bringing out. Now you run \expndtw0 straight up to the house and change your wet clothes, or you will \expndtw-1 catch cold.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 And, if you know what I mean, there was a sort of motherly note \expndtw0 in her voice which seemed to tell me, even more than her actual words, that I was for it.\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw-3 As I was coming downstairs after changing, I ran into young Bingo, \expndtw-2 looking festive to a degree.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-3 'Bertie!' he said. 'Just the man I wanted to see. Bertie, a wonderful \expndtw1 thing has happened.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'You blighter!' I cried. 'What became of you? Do you know-'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 'Oh, you mean about being in those bushes? I hadn't time to tell \expndtw1 you about that. It's all off.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-5 'All off?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 'Bertie, I was actually starting to hide in those bushes when the \expndtw-2 most extraordinary thing happened. Walking across the lawn I saw the most radiant, the most beautiful girl in the world. There is none \expndtw-3 like her, none. Bertie, do you believe in love at first sight? You do \expndtw-1 believe in love at first sight, don't you, Bertie, old man? Directly I \expndtw-3 saw her she seemed to draw me like a magnet. I seemed to forget \expndtw-4 everything. We two were alone in a world of music and sunshine. I \expndtw-2 joined her. I got into conversation. She is a Miss Braythwayt, Bertie \expndtw0 - Daphne Braythwayt. Directly our eyes met, I realized that what I\cf0  \cf1\expndtw11 had imagined to be love for Honoria Glossop had been a mere \expndtw1 passing whim. Bertie, you do believe in love at first sight, don't you? \expndtw5 She is so wonderful, so sympathetic. Like a tender goddess - ' \expndtw4 At this point I left the blighter.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 Two days later I got a letter from Jeeves.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 ' - The weather,' it ended, 'continues fine. I have had one exceed\expndtw1 ingly enjoyable bathe.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 I gave one of those hollow, mirthless laughs, and went downstairs \expndtw7 to join Honoria. I had an appointment with her in the drawing-\expndtw5 room. She was going to read Ruskin to me.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\par
\cf1\expndtw-48\ul\b 7\par
\expndtw-3 Introducing Claude and Eustace\cf0\expndtw0\ulnone\b0\par
\par
\cf1\expndtw3 The blow fell precisely at one-forty-five (summer time). Spenser, \expndtw5 Aunt Agatha's butler, was offering me the fried potatoes at the moment, and such was my emotion that I lofted six of them on to \expndtw3 the sideboard with the spoon. Shaken to the core, if you know what I mean.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 Mark you, I was in a pretty enfeebled condition already. I had \expndtw2 been engaged to Honoria Glossop nearly two weeks, and during all \expndtw4 that time not a day had passed without her putting in some heavy \expndtw6 work in the direction of what Aunt Agatha had called 'moulding' \expndtw5 me. I had read solid literature till my eyes bubbled; we had legged \expndtw3 it together through miles of picture-galleries; and I had been com\expndtw1 pelled to undergo classical concerts to an extent you would hardly \expndtw0 believe. All in all, therefore, I was in no fit state to receive shocks, \expndtw4 especially shocks like this. Honoria had lugged me round to lunch \expndtw7 at Aunt Agatha's, and I had just been saying to myself, 'Death, \expndtw4 where is thy jolly old sting?' when she hove the bomb.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw7 'Bertie,' she said, suddenly, as if she had just remembered it, \expndtw5 'what is the name of that man of yours - your valet?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Eh? Oh, Jeeves.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw7 'I think he's a bad influence for you,' said Honoria. 'When we \expndtw4 are married, you must get rid of Jeeves.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 It was at this point that I jerked the spoon and sent six of the best \expndtw4 and crispest sailing on to the sideboard, with Spenser gambolling \expndtw3 after them like a dignified old retriever.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Get rid of Jeeves!' I gasped.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Yes. I don't like him.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 '\i I\i0  don't like him,' said Aunt Agatha.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'But I can't. I mean - why, I couldn't carry on for a day without \expndtw3 Jeeves.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'You will have to,' said Honoria. 'I don't like him at all.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 '\i I\i0  don't like him at all,' said Aunt Agatha. 'I never did.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 Ghastly, what? I'd always had an idea that marriage was a bit of\cf0\expndtw0  \cf1\expndtw4 a wash-out, but I'd never dreamed that it demanded such frightful sacrifices from a fellow. I passed the rest of the meal in a sort of \expndtw1 stupor.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw7 The scheme had been, if I remember, that after lunch I should go off and caddy for Honoria on a shopping tour down Regent \expndtw5 Street; but when she got up and started collecting me and the rest of her things, Aunt Agatha stopped her.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'You run along, dear,' she said. 'I want to say a few words to \expndtw3 Bertie.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 So Honoria legged it, and Aunt Agatha drew up her chair and \expndtw3 started in.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Bertie,' she said, 'dear Honoria does not know it, but a little \expndtw3 difficulty has arisen about your marriage.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'By Jove! Not really?' I said, hope starting to dawn.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Oh, it's nothing at all, of course. It is only a little exasperating. \expndtw5 The fact is, Sir Roderick is being rather troublesome.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Thinks I'm not a good bet? Wants to scratch the fixture? Well, \expndtw6 perhaps he's right.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Pray do not be so absurd, Bertie. It is nothing so serious as that. \expndtw2 But the nature of Sir Roderick's profession unfortunately makes him \expndtw6 - over-cautious.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 I didn't get it.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Over-cautious?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 'Yes. I suppose it is inevitable. A nerve specialist with his extensive \expndtw3 practice can hardly help taking a rather warped view of humanity.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 I got what she was driving at now. Sir Roderick Glossop, Hono-\expndtw4 ria's father, is always called a nerve specialist, because it sounds \expndtw1 better, but everybody knows that he's really a sort of janitor to the \expndtw4 loony-bin. I mean to say, when your uncle the Duke begins to feel \expndtw2 the strain a bit and you find him in the blue drawing-room sticking \expndtw3 straws in his hair, old Glossop is the first person you send for. He \expndtw4 toddles round, gives the patient the once-over, talks about over\expndtw2 excited nervous systems, and recommends complete rest and seclu\expndtw1 sion and all that sort of thing. Practically every posh family in the \expndtw7 country has called him in at one time or another, and I suppose \expndtw5 that, being in that position - I mean constantly having to sit on \expndtw4 people's heads while their nearest and dearest phone to the asylum \expndtw5 to send round the wagon - does tend to make a chappie take what \expndtw2 you might call a warped view of humanity.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw7 'You mean he thinks I may be a loony, and he doesn't want a \expndtw3 loony son-in-law?' I said.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 Aunt Agatha seemed rather peeved than otherwise at my deadly \expndtw-1 intelligence.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Of course, he does not think anything so ridiculous. I told you \expndtw0 he was simply exceedingly cautious. He wants to satisfy himself that \expndtw5 you are perfectly normal.' Here she paused, for Spenser had come \expndtw3 in with the coffee. When he had gone, she went on: 'He appears to \expndtw0 have got hold of some extraordinary story about your having pushed \expndtw8 his son Oswald into the lake at Ditteredge Hall. Incredible, of \expndtw4 course. Even you would hardly do a thing like that.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Well, I did sort of lean against him, you know, and he shot off the bridge.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Oswald definitely accuses you of having pushed him into the water. That has disturbed Sir Roderick, and unfortunately it has \expndtw5 caused him to make inquiries, and he has heard about your poor Uncle Henry.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 She eyed me with a good deal of solemnity, and I took a grave \expndtw2 sip of coffee. We were peeping into the family cupboard and having a look at the good old skeleton. My late Uncle Henry, you see, was \expndtw1 by way of being the blot on the Wooster escutcheon. An extremely \expndtw0 decent chappie personally, and one who had always endeared himself \expndtw4 to me by tipping me with considerable lavishness when I was at \expndtw2 school; but there's no doubt he did at times do rather rummy things, \expndtw1 notably keeping eleven pet rabbits in his bedroom; and I suppose a purist might have considered him more or less off his onion. In fact, to be perfectly frank, he wound up his career, happy to the last and \expndtw4 completely surrounded by rabbits, in some sort of a home.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Is is very absurd, of course,' continued Aunt Agatha. 'If any of \expndtw6 the family had inherited poor Henry's eccentricity - and it was \expndtw3 nothing more - it would have been Claude and Eustace, and there \expndtw4 could not be two brighter boys.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 Claude and Eustace were twins, and had been kids at school with \expndtw6 me in my last summer term. Casting my mind back, it seemed to \expndtw4 me that 'bright' just about described them. The whole of that term, \expndtw3 as I remembered, had been spent in getting them out of a series of \expndtw0 frightful rows.\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Look how well they are doing at Oxford. Your Aunt Emily had \expndtw6 a letter from Claude only the other day saying that they hoped to \expndtw5 be elected shortly to a very important college club, called The \expndtw3 Seekers.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Seekers?' I couldn't recall any club of the name in my time at \expndtw4 Oxford. 'What do they seek?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Claude did not say. Truth or knowledge, I should imagine. It is \expndtw2 evidently a very desirable club to belong to, for Claude added that \expndtw4 Lord Rainsby, the Earl of Datchet's son, was one of his fellow \expndtw5 candidates. However, we are wandering from the point, which is \expndtw4 that Sir Roderick wants to have a quiet talk with you quite alone. \expndtw1 Now I rely on you, Bertie, to be - I won't say intelligent, but at least sensible. Don't giggle nervously; try to keep that horrible glassy \expndtw5 expression out of your eyes; don't yawn or fidget; and remember \expndtw8 that Sir Roderick is the president of the West London branch of \expndtw3 the anti-gambling league, so please do not talk about horse-racing. \expndtw1 He will lunch with you at your flat tomorrow at one-thirty. Please \expndtw2 remember that he drinks no wine, strongly disapproves of smoking, and can only eat the simplest food, owing to an impaired digestion. Do not offer him coffee, for he considers it the root of half the \expndtw5 nerve-trouble in the world.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'I should think a dog-biscuit and a glass of water would about \expndtw3 meet the case, what?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Bertie!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Oh, all right. Merely persiflage.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Now it is precisely that sort of idiotic remark that would be calculated to arouse Sir Roderick's worst suspicions. Do please try \expndtw6 to refrain from any misguided flippancy when you are with him. \expndtw1 He is a very serious-minded man... Are you going? Well, please remember all I have said. I rely on you, and, if anything goes wrong, \expndtw2 I shall never forgive you.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Right-o!' I said.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 And so home, with a jolly day to look forward to.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\par
\cf1\expndtw3 I breakfasted pretty late next morning and went for a stroll after\expndtw5 wards. It seemed to me that anything I could do to clear the old \expndtw1 lemon ought to be done, and a bit of fresh air generally relieves that rather foggy feeling that comes over a fellow early in the day. I had \expndtw2 taken a stroll in the park, and got back as far as Hyde Park Corner, when some blighter sloshed me between the shoulder-blades. It was young Eustace, my cousin. He was arm-in-arm with two other fel\expndtw5 lows, the one on the outside, being my cousin Claude and the one \expndtw1 in the middle a pink-faced chappie with light hair and an apologetic sort of look.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Bertie, old egg!' said young Eustace affably.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Hallo!' I said, not frightfully chirpily.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Fancy running into you, the one man in London who can support\cf0\expndtw0  \cf1\expndtw2 us in the style we are accustomed to! By the way, you've never met \expndtw4 the old Dog-Face, have you? Dog-Face, this is my cousin Bertie. Lord Rainsby - Mr Wooster. We've just been round to your flat, \expndtw1 Bertie. Bitterly disappointed that you were out, but were hospitably \expndtw2 entertained by old Jeeves. That man's a corker, Bertie. Stick to him.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'What are you doing in London?' I asked.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'Oh, buzzing round. We're just up for the day. Flying visit, strictly \expndtw5 unofficial. We oil back on the three-ten. And now, touching that \expndtw1 lunch you very decently volunteered to stand us, which shall it be? \expndtw6 Ritz? Savoy? Carlton? Or, if you're a member of Giro's or the \expndtw3 Embassy, that would do just as well.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'I can't give you lunch. I've got an engagement myself. And, by \expndtw3 Jove,' I said, taking a look at my watch, 'I'm late.' I hailed a taxi. 'Sorry.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'As man to man, then,' said Eustace, 'lend us a fiver.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 I hadn't time to stop and argue. I unbelted the fiver and hopped \expndtw3 into the cab. It was twenty to two when I got to the flat. I bounded \expndtw4 into the sitting-room, but it was empty.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 Jeeves shimmied in.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Sir Roderick has not yet arrived, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Good egg!' I said. 'I thought I should find him smashing up the \expndtw1 furniture.' My experience is that the less you want a fellow, the more \expndtw6 punctual he's bound to be, and I had had a vision of the old lad \expndtw4 pacing the rug in my sitting-room, saying 'He cometh not!' and generally hotting up. 'Is everything in order?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'I fancy you will find the arrangements quite satisfactory, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'What are you giving us?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Cold consomme, a cutlet, and a savoury, sir. With lemon-squash, \expndtw3 iced.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Well, I don't see how that can hurt him. Don't go getting carried \expndtw4 away by the excitement of the thing and start bringing in coffee.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'No, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'And don't let your eyes get glassy, because, if you do, you're apt \expndtw4 to find yourself in a padded cell before you know where you are.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Very good, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 There was a ring at the bell.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Stand by, Jeeves,' I said. 'We're off!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\par
\cf1\ul\b 8\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 Sir Roderick Comes to Lunch\cf0\expndtw0\ulnone\b0\par
\par
\cf1\expndtw3 I had met Sir Roderick Glossop before, of course, but only when I \expndtw6 was with Honoria; and there is something about Honoria which \expndtw1 makes almost anybody you meet in the same room seem sort of under-sized and trivial by comparison. I had never realized till this \expndtw2 moment what an extraordinarily formidable old bird he was. He had \expndtw-1 a pair of shaggy eyebrows which gave his eyes a piercing look which \expndtw2 was not at all the sort of thing a fellow wanted to encounter on an empty stomach. He was fairly tall and fairly broad, and he had the \expndtw3 most enormous head, with practically no hair on it, which made it \expndtw5 seem bigger and much more like the dome of St Paul's. I suppose he must have taken about a nine or something in hats. Shows what a rotten thing it is to let your brain develop too much.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'What ho! What ho! What ho!' I said, trying to strike the genial \expndtw6 note, and then had a sudden feeling that that was just the sort of \expndtw5 thing I had been warned not to say. Dashed difficult it is to start \expndtw0 things going properly on an occasion like this. A fellow living in a \expndtw7 London flat is so handicapped. I mean to say, if I had been the \expndtw2 young squire greeting the visitor in the country, I could have said, 'Welcome to Meadowsweet Hall!' or something zippy like that. It \expndtw1 sounds silly to say 'Welcome to Number 6A, Crichton Mansions, \expndtw3 Berkeley Street, W.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'I am afraid I am a little late,' he said, as we sat down. 'I was \expndtw3 detained at my club by Lord Alastair Hungerford, the Duke of \expndtw7 Ramfurline's son. His Grace, he informed me, had exhibited a \expndtw4 renewal of the symptoms which have been causing the family so \expndtw3 much concern. I could not leave him immediately. Hence my \expndtw4 unpunctuality, which I trust has not discommoded you.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Oh, not at all. So the Duke is off his rocker, what?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'The expression which you use is not precisely the one I should \expndtw4 have employed myself with reference to the head of perhaps the \expndtw1 noblest family in England, but there is no doubt that cerebral excite\expndtw5 ment does, as you suggest, exist in no small degree.' He sighed as\cf0\expndtw0  \cf1\expndtw5 well as he could with his mouth full of cutlet. 'A profession like mine is a great strain, a great strain.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw8 'Must be.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Sometimes I am appalled at what I see around me.' He stopped \expndtw5 suddenly and sort of stiffened. 'Do you keep a cat, Mr Wooster?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Eh? What? Cat? No, no cat.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'I was conscious of a distinct impression that I had heard a cat \expndtw5 mewing either in the room or very near to where we are sitting.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Probably a taxi or something in the street.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'I fear I do not follow you.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'I mean to say, taxis squawk, you know. Rather like cats in a sort \expndtw-1 of way.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'I had not observed the resemblance,' he said, rather coldly.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'Have some lemon-squash,' I said. The conversation seemed to \expndtw3 be getting rather difficult.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Thank you. Half a glassful, if I may.' The hell-brew appeared to \expndtw1 buck him up, for he resumed in a slightly more pally manner. 'I have a particular dislike for cats. But I was saying - Oh, yes. Sometimes I \expndtw4 am positively appalled at what I see around me. It is not only the \expndtw1 cases which come under my professional notice, painful as many of \expndtw9 those are. It is what I see as I go about London. Sometimes it \expndtw1 seems to me that the whole world is mentally unbalanced. This very \expndtw4 morning, for example, a most singular and distressing occurrence \expndtw6 took place as I was driving from my house to the club. The day \expndtw0 being clement, I had instructed my chauffeur to open my laudaulette, and I was leaning back, deriving no little pleasure from the sunshine, \expndtw5 when our progress was arrested in the middle of the thoroughfare by one of those blocks in the traffic which are inevitable in so congested a system as that of London.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 I suppose I had been letting my mind wander a bit, for when he \expndtw3 stopped and took a sip of lemon-squash I had a feeling that I was \expndtw4 listening to a lecture and was expected to say something.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'Hear, hear!' I said.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'I beg your pardon?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'Nothing, nothing. You were saying -'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'The vehicles proceeding in the opposite direction had also been temporarily arrested, but after a moment they were permitted to \expndtw2 proceed. I had fallen into a meditation, when suddenly the most extraordinary thing took place. My hat was snatched abruptly from my head! And as I looked back I perceived it being waved in a kind \expndtw4 of feverish triumph from the interior of a taxicab, which, even as I\cf0\expndtw0  \cf1\expndtw6 looked, disappeared through a gap in the traffic and was lost to \expndtw1 sight.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 I didn't laugh, but I distinctly heard a couple of my floating ribs \expndtw5 part from their moorings under the strain.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Must have been meant for a practical joke,' I said. 'What?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 This suggestion didn't seem to please the old boy.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'I trust,' he said, 'I am not deficient in an appreciation of the \expndtw5 humorous, but I confess that I am at a loss to detect anything akin \expndtw1 to pleasantry in the outrage. The action was beyond all question that of a mentally unbalanced subject. These mental lesions may express \expndtw5 themselves in almost any form. The Duke of Ramfurline, to whom I had occasion to allude just now, is under the impression - this is \expndtw7 in the strictest confidence - that he is a canary: and his seizure \expndtw2 today, which so perturbed Lord Alastair, was due to the fact that a \expndtw3 careless footman had neglected to bring him his morning lump of \expndtw4 sugar. Cases are common, again, of men waylaying women and \expndtw5 cutting off portions of their hair. It is from a branch of this latter \expndtw1 form of mania that I should be disposed to imagine that my assailant \expndtw2 was suffering. I can only trust that he will be placed under proper \expndtw6 control before he - Mr Wooster, there \i is \i0 a cat close at hand! It is \expndtw3\i not in \i0 the street! The mewing appears to come from the adjoining \expndtw2 room.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\par
\cf1\expndtw4 This time I had to admit there was no doubt about it. There was a \expndtw6 distinct sound of mewing coming from the next room. I punched \expndtw1 the bell for Jeeves, who drifted in and stood waiting with an air of respectful devotion.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Sir?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'Oh, Jeeves,' I said. 'Cats! What about it? Are there any cats in \expndtw1 the flat?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'Only the three in your bedroom, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'What!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Cats in his bedroom!' I heard Sir Roderick whisper in a kind of stricken way, and his eyes hit me amidships like a couple of bullets.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'What do you mean,' I said, 'only the three in my bedroom?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'The black one, the tabby and the small lemon-coloured animal, \expndtw1 sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw7 'What on earth - ?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 I charged round the table in the direction of the door. Unfortu\expndtw7 nately, Sir Roderick had just decided to edge in that direction \expndtw2 himself, with the result that we collided in the doorway with a good\cf0\expndtw0  \cf1\expndtw5 deal of force, and staggered out into the hall together. He came smartly out of the clinch and grabbed an umbrella from the rack.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Stand back!' he shouted, waving it overhead. 'Stand back, sir! I am armed!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 It seemed to me that the moment had come to be soothing.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Awfully sorry I barged into you,' I said. 'Wouldn't have had it \expndtw1 happen for worlds. I was just dashing out to have a look into things.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw7 He appeared a trifle reassured, and lowered the umbrella. But \expndtw1 just then the most frightful shindy started in the bedroom. It sounded as though all the cats in London, assisted by delegates from outlying \expndtw3 suburbs, had got together to settle their differences once for aU. A \expndtw4 sort of augmented orchestra of cats.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'This noise is unendurable,' yelled Sir Roderick. 'I cannot hear \expndtw0 myself speak.'\cf0\par
\cf1 'I fancy, sir,' said Jeeves respectfully, 'that the animals may have \expndtw1 become somewhat exhilarated as the result of having discovered the \expndtw6 fish under Mr Wooster's bed.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 The old boy tottered.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Fish! Did I hear you rightly?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Sir?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'Did you say that there was a fish under Mr Wooster's bed?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Yes, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 Sir Roderick gave a low moan, and reached for his hat and stick.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'You aren't going?' I said.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw7 'Mr Wooster, I \i am \i0 going! I prefer to spend my leisure time in \expndtw2 less eccentric society.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw8 'But I say. Here, I must come with you. I'm sure the whole \expndtw4 business can be explained. Jeeves, my hat.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 Jeeves rallied round. I took the hat from him and shoved it on my \expndtw1 head.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Good heavens!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 Beastly shock it was! The bally thing had absolutely engulfed me, if you know what I mean. Even as I was putting it on I got a sort of \expndtw3 impression that it was a trifle roomy; and no sooner had I let it go \expndtw4 than it settled down over my ears like a kind of extinguisher.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'I say! This isn't my hat!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'It is \i my \i0 hat!' said Sir Roderick in about the coldest, nastiest voice \expndtw5 I'd ever heard. 'The hat which was stolen from me this morning as I drove in my car.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw32 'But-'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 I suppose Napoleon or somebody like that would have been equal\cf0\expndtw0  \cf1\expndtw2 to the situation, but I'm bound to say it was too much for me. I just \expndtw3 stood there goggling in a sort of coma, while the old boy lifted the \expndtw5 hat off me and turned to Jeeves.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'I should be glad, my man,' he said, 'if you would accompany me \expndtw4 a few yards down the street. I wish to ask you some questions.'\par
'\expndtw2 Very good, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Here, but, I say- !' I began, but he left me standing. He stalked \expndtw1 out, followed by Jeeves. And at that moment the row in the bedroom \expndtw4 started again, louder than ever.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 I was about fed up with the whole thing. I mean, cats in your \expndtw7 bedroom - a bit thick, what? I didn't know how the dickens they \expndtw3 had got in, but I was jolly well resolved that they weren't going to stay picnicking there any longer. I flung open the door. I got a \expndtw2 momentary flash of about a hundred and fifteen cats of all sizes and colours scrapping in the middle of the room, and then they all shot \expndtw5 past me with a rush and out of the front door; and all that was left \expndtw1 of the mob-scene was the head of a whacking big fish, lying on the \expndtw2 carpet and staring up at me in a rather austere sort of way, as if it \expndtw3 wanted a written explanation and apology.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 There was something about the thing's expression that absolutely \expndtw6 chilled me, and I withdrew on tiptoe and shut the door. And, as I \expndtw5 did so, I bumped into someone.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Oh, sorry!' he said.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 I spun round. It was the pink-faced chappie, Lord Something or \expndtw5 other, the fellow I had met with Claude and Eustace.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'I say,' he said apologetically, 'awfully sorry to bother you, but \expndtw5 those weren't my cats I met just now legging it downstairs, were \expndtw3 they? They looked like my cats.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'They came out of my bedroom.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Then they \i were \i0 my cats!' he said sadly. 'Oh, dash it.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Did you put cats in my bedroom?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Your man, what's-his-name, did. He rather decently said I could \expndtw1 keep them there till my train went. I'd just come to fetch them. And \expndtw4 now they've gone! Oh, well, it can't be helped, I suppose. I'll take the hat and the fish, anyway.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 I was beginning to dislike this chappie.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Did you put that bally fish there, too?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw7 'No, that was Eustace's. The hat was Claude's.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 I sank limply into a chair.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'I say, you couldn't explain this, could you?' I said. The chappie \expndtw4 gazed at me in mild surprise.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Why, don't you know all about it? I say!' He blushed profusely. \expndtw4 'Why, if you don't know about it, I shouldn't wonder if the whole \expndtw5 thing didn't seem rummy to you.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Rummy is the word.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'It was for The Seekers, you know?'\par
\expndtw7 'The Seekers?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'Rather a blood club, you know, up at Oxford, which your cousins \expndtw2 and I are rather keen on getting into. You have to pinch something, \expndtw1 you know, to get elected. Some sort of a souvenir, you know. A policeman's helmet, you know, or a door-knocker or something, you \expndtw5 know. The room's decorated with the things at the annual dinner, \expndtw6 and everybody makes speeches and all that sort of thing. Rather \expndtw1 jolly! Well, we wanted rather to make a sort of special effort and do \expndtw5 the thing in style, if you understand, so we came up to London to \expndtw6 see if we couldn't pick up something here that would be a bit out \expndtw2 of the ordinary. And we had the most amazing luck right from the start. Your cousin Claude managed to collect a quite decent top-hat \expndtw0 out of a passing car and your cousin Eustace got away with a really \expndtw3 goodish salmon or something from Harrods, and I snaffed three \expndtw4 excellent cats all in the first hour. We were fearfully braced, I can \expndtw6 tell you. And then the difficulty was to know where to park the \expndtw-1 things till our train went. You look so beastly conspicuous, you know, \expndtw1 tooling about London with a fish and a lot of cats. And then Eustace \expndtw3 remembered you, and we all came on here in a cab. You were out, \expndtw1 but your man said it would be all right. When we met you, you were \expndtw2 in such a hurry that we hadn't time to explain. Well, I think I'll be \expndtw5 taking the hat, if you don't mind.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'It's gone.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Gone?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw7 'The fellow you pinched it from happened to be the man who \expndtw4 was lunching here. He took it away with him.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Oh, I say! Poor old Claude will be upset. Well, how about the \expndtw3 goodish salmon or something?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Would you care to view the remains?' He seemed all broken up \expndtw3 when he saw the wreckage.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'I doubt if the committee would accept that,' he said sadly. 'There \expndtw4 isn't a frightful lot of it left, what?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw8 'The cats ate the rest.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 He sighed deeply.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'No cats, no fish, no hat. We've had all our trouble for nothing.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw8 I do call that hard! And on top of that - I say, I hate to ask you, \expndtw5 but you couldn't lend me a tenner, could you?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'A tenner? What for?\par
\expndtw7 'Well, the fact is, I've got to pop round and bail Claude and \expndtw6 Eustace out. They've been arrested.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Arrested!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Yes. You see, what with the excitement of collaring the hat and \expndtw6 the salmon or something, added to the fact that we had rather a \expndtw2 festive lunch, they got a bit above themselves, poor chaps, and tried \expndtw6 to pinch a motor-lorry. Silly, of course, because I don't see how \expndtw0 they could have got the thing to Oxford and shown it to the commit\expndtw1 tee. Still, there wasn't any reasoning with them, and when the driver \expndtw2 started making a fuss, there was a bit of a mix-up, and Claude and \expndtw5 Eustace are more or less languishing in Vine Street police station \expndtw4 till I pop round and bail them out. So if you could manage a tenner \expndtw5 - Oh, thanks, that's fearfully good of you. It would have been too \expndtw1 bad to leave them there, what? I mean, they're both such frightfully \expndtw4 good chaps, you know. Everybody likes them up at the Varsity. They're fearfully popular.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'I bet they are!' I said.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\par
\cf1\expndtw1 When Jeeves came back, I was waiting for him on the mat. I wanted \expndtw3 speech with the blighter.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Well?' I said.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'Sir Roderick asked me a number of questions, sir, respecting \expndtw4 your habits and mode of life, to which I replied guardedly.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'I don't care about that. What I want to know is why you didn't explain the whole thing to him right at the start? A word from you \expndtw3 would have put everything clear.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Yes, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Now he's gone off thinking me a loony.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'I should not be surprised, from his conversation with me, sir, if \expndtw6 some such idea had not entered his head.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 I was just starting to speak, when the telephone bell rang. Jeeves answered it.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'No, madam, Mr Wooster is not in. No, madam, I do not know when he will return. No, madam, he left no message. Yes, madam, \expndtw6 I will inform him.' He put back the receiver. 'Mrs Gregson, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 Aunt Agatha! I had been expecting it. Ever since the luncheon-party had blown out a fuse, her shadow had been hanging over me, \expndtw2 so to speak.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Does she know? Already?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw7 'I gather that Sir Roderick has been speaking to her on the \expndtw6 telephone, sir, and - '\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'No wedding bells for me, what?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 Jeeves coughed.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Mrs Gregson did not actually confide in me, sir, but I fancy that \expndtw1 some such thing may have occurred. She seemed decidedly agitated, \expndtw2 sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 It's a rummy thing, but I'd been so snootered by the old boy and the cats and the fish and the hat and the pink-faced chappie and all \expndtw5 the rest of it that the bright side simply hadn't occurred to me till \expndtw2 now. By Jove, it was like a bally weight rolling off my chest! I gave \expndtw3 a yelp of pure relief.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Jeeves!' I said, 'I believe you worked the whole thing!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Sir?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'I believe you had the jolly old situation in hand right from the \expndtw3 start.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'Well, sir, Spenser, Mrs Gregson's butler, who inadvertently \expndtw1 chanced to overhear something of your conversation when you were \expndtw4 lunching at the house, did mention certain of the details to me; and \expndtw5 I confess that, though it may be a liberty to say so, I entertained hopes that something might occur to prevent the match. I doubt if \expndtw3 the young lady was entirely suitable to you, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'And she would have shot you out on your ear five minutes after \expndtw4 the ceremony.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Yes, sir. Spenser informed me that she had expressed some such \expndtw5 intention. Mrs Gregson wishes you to call upon her immediately, \expndtw2 sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'She does, eh? What do you advise, Jeeves?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'I think a trip abroad might prove enjoyable, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 I shook my head. 'She'd come after me.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Not if you went far enough afield, sir. There are excellent boats \expndtw3 leaving every Wednesday and Saturday for New York.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Jeeves,' I said, 'you are right, as always. Book the tickets.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\par
\cf1\ul\b\f1 9\cf0\f0\par
\cf1\expndtw-2 A Letter of Introduction\cf0\expndtw0\ulnone\b0\par
\par
\cf1\expndtw5 You know, the longer I live, the more clearly I see that half the \expndtw0 trouble in this bally world is caused by the light-hearted and thought\expndtw2 less way in which chappies dash off letters of introduction and hand \expndtw4 them to other chappies to deliver to chappies of the third part. It's \expndtw1 one of those things that make you wish you were living in the Stone Age. What I mean to say is, if a fellow in those days wanted to give \expndtw7 anyone a letter of introduction, he had to spend a month or so \expndtw4 carving it on a large-sized boulder, and the chances were that the \expndtw3 other chappie got so sick of lugging the thing round in the hot sun that he dropped it after the first mile. But nowadays it's so easy to \expndtw2 write letters of introduction that everybody does it without a second \expndtw0 thought, with the result that some perfectly harmless cove like myself \expndtw4 gets in the soup.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 Mark you, all the above is what you might call the result of my \expndtw2 riper experience. I don't mind admitting that in the first flush of the \expndtw3 thing, so to speak, when Jeeves told me - this would be about three \expndtw2 weeks after I'd landed in America - that a blighter called Cyril \expndtw4 Bassington-Bassington had arrived and I found that he had brought \expndtw6 a letter of introduction to me from Aunt Agatha ... where was I? \expndtw4 Oh, yes \expndtw27 ...\expndtw4  I don't mind admitting, I was saying, that just at first I \expndtw5 was rather bucked. You see, after the painful events which had \expndtw2 resulted in my leaving England I hadn't expected to get any sort of \expndtw3 letter from Aunt Agatha which would pass the censor, so to speak. \expndtw5 And it was a pleasant surprise to open this one and find it almost \expndtw0 civil. Chilly, perhaps, in parts, but on the whole quite tolerably polite. \expndtw4 I looked on the thing as a hopeful sign. Sort of olive branch, you \expndtw7 know. Or do I mean orange blossom? What I'm getting at is that \expndtw5 the fact that Aunt Agatha was writing to me without calling me names seemed, more or less, like a step in the direction of peace.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 And I was all for peace, and that right speedily. I'm not saying a \expndtw0 word against New York, mind you. I liked the place, and was having \expndtw9 quite a ripe time there. But the fact remains that a fellow who's\cf0\expndtw0  \cf1\expndtw5 been used to London all his life does get a trifle homesick on a foreign strand, and I wanted to pop back to the cosy old flat in \expndtw1 Berkeley Street - which could only be done when Aunt Agatha had \expndtw5 simmered down and got over the Glossop episode. I know that \expndtw1 London is a biggish city, but, believe me, it isn't half big enough for \expndtw0 any fellow to live in with Aunt Agatha when she's after him with the \expndtw2 old hatchet. And so I'm bound to say I looked on this chump Bassington-Bassington, when he arrived, more or less as a Dove of \expndtw4 Peace, and was all for him.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 He would seem from contemporary accounts to have blown in \expndtw2 one morning at seven-forty-five, that being the ghastly sort of hour \expndtw-1 they shoot you off the liner in New York. He was given the respectful \expndtw3 raspberry by Jeeves, and told to try again about three hours later, \expndtw4 when there would be a sporting chance of my having sprung from \expndtw2 my bed with a glad cry to welcome another day and all that sort of \expndtw4 thing. Which was rather decent of Jeeves, by the way, for it so \expndtw3 happened that there was a slight estrangement, a touch of coldness, \expndtw7 a bit of a row in other words, between us at the moment because \expndtw4 of some rather priceless purple socks which I was wearing against \expndtw0 his wishes: and a lesser man might easily have snatched at the chance \expndtw4 of getting back at me a bit by loosing Cyril into my bedchamber at \expndtw3 a moment when I couldn't have stood a two-minutes' conversation \expndtw4 with my dearest pal. For until I have had my early cup of tea and \expndtw3 have brooded on life for a bit absolutely undisturbed, I'm not much \expndtw5 of a lad for the merry chit-chat.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\par
\cf1\expndtw5 So Jeeves very sportingly shot Cyril out into the crisp morning \expndtw4 air, and didn't let me know of his existence till he brought his card \expndtw3 in with the Bohea.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'And what might all this be, Jeeves?' I said, giving the thing the \expndtw-3 glassy gaze.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'The gentleman has arrived from England, I understand, sir. He called to see you earlier in the day.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Good Lord, Jeeves! You don't mean to say the day starts earlier \expndtw3 than this?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'He desired me to say he would return later, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'I've never heard of him. Have \i you \i0 ever heard of him, Jeeves?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'I am familiar with the name Bassington-Bassington, sir. There are three branches of the Bassington-Bassington family - the Shropshire \expndtw4 Bassington-Bassingtons, the Hampshire Bassington-Bassingtons, and the Kent Bassington-Bassingtons.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'England seems pretty well stocked up with Bassington-Bas\expndtw1 singtons.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Tolerably so, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'No chance of a sudden shortage, I mean, what?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Presumably not, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'And what sort of a specimen is this one?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'I could not say, sir, on such short acquaintance.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'Will you give me a sporting two to one, Jeeves, judging from what \expndtw4 you have seen of him, that this chappie is not a blighter or an \expndtw0 excrescence?'\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'No, sir. I should not care to venture such liberal odds.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'I knew it. Well, the only thing that remains to be discovered is \expndtw5 what kind of a blighter he is.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Time will tell, sir. The gentleman brought a letter for you, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Oh, he did, did he?' I said, and grasped the communication. And \expndtw4 then I recognized the handwriting. 'I say, Jeeves, this is from my \expndtw2 Aunt Agatha!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Indeed, sir?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Don't dismiss it in that light way. Don't you see what this means? \expndtw3 She says she wants me to look after this excrescence while he's in \expndtw2 New York. By Jove, Jeeves, if I only fawn on him a bit, so that he \expndtw6 sends back a favourable report to headquarters, I may yet be able \expndtw2 to get back to England in time for Goodwood. Now is certainly the \expndtw4 time for all good men to come to the aid of the party, Jeeves. We \expndtw5 must rally round and cosset this cove in no uncertain manner.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Yes, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'He isn't going to stay in New York long,' I said, taking another \expndtw4 look at the letter. 'He's headed for Washington. Going to give the \expndtw3 nibs there the once-over, apparently, before taking a whirl at the Diplomatic Service. I should say that we can win this lad's esteem \expndtw4 and affection with a lunch and a couple of dinners, what?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'I fancy that should be entirely adequate, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'This is the jolliest thing that's happened since we left England. It looks to me as if the sun were breaking through the clouds.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Very possibly, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 He started to put out my things, and there was an awkward sort \expndtw0 of silence.\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Not those socks, Jeeves,' I said, gulping a bit but having a dash \expndtw6 at the careless, off-hand tone. 'Give me the purple ones.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'I beg your pardon, sir?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Those jolly purple ones.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Very good, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw7 He lugged them out of the drawer as if he were a vegetarian \expndtw2 fishing a caterpillar out of the salad. You could see he was feeling deeply. Deuced painful and all that, this sort of thing, but a chappie \expndtw3 has got to assert himself every now and then. Absolutely.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\par
\cf1\expndtw4 I was looking for Cyril to show up again any time after breakfast, \expndtw5 but he didn't appear: so towards one o'clock I trickled out to the \expndtw3 Lambs Club, where I had an appointment to feed the Wooster face \expndtw1 with a cove of the name of Caffyn I'd got pally with since my arrival \expndtw5 - George Caffyn, a fellow who wrote plays and what not. I'd made \expndtw1 a lot of friends during my stay in New York, the city being crammed \expndtw4 with bonhomous lads who one and all extended a welcoming hand \expndtw5 to the stranger in their midst.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 Caffyn was a bit late, but bobbed up finally, saying that he had \expndtw3 been kept at a rehearsal of his new musical comedy, \i Ask Dad; \i0 and \expndtw1 we started in. We had just reached the coffee, when the waiter came \expndtw5 up and said that Jeeves wanted to see me.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 Jeeves was in the waiting-room. He gave the socks one pained \expndtw4 look as I came in, then averted his eyes.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Mr Bassington-Bassington has just telephoned, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Oh?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Yes, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Where is he?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'In prison, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 I reeled against the wallpaper. A nice thing to happen to Aunt \expndtw5 Agatha's nominee on his first morning under my wing, I did \i not \expndtw-4\i0 think!\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'In prison!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Yes, sir. He said on the telephone that he had been arrested and \expndtw5 would be glad if you could step round and bail him out.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Arrested! What for?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'He did not favour me with his confidence in that respect, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'This is a bit thick, Jeeves.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Precisely, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 I collected old George, who very decently volunteered to stagger \expndtw6 along with me, and we hopped into a taxi. We sat around at the \expndtw5 police station for a bit on a wooden bench in a sort of ante-room, \expndtw4 and presently a policeman appeared, leading in Cyril.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Hallo! Hallo! Hallo!' I said. 'What?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 My experience is that a fellow never really looks his best just after\cf0\expndtw0  \cf1\expndtw2 he's come out of a cell. When I was up at Oxford, I used to have a \expndtw1 regular job bailing out a pal of mine who never failed to get pinched \expndtw5 every Boat Race night, and he always looked like something that \expndtw6 had been dug up by the roots. Cyril was in pretty much the same \expndtw4 sort of shape. He had a black eye and a torn collar, and altogether \expndtw2 was nothing to write home about - especially if one was writing to \expndtw1 Aunt Agatha. He was a thin, tall chappie with a lot of light hair and \expndtw4 pale-blue goggly eyes which made him look like one of the rarer \expndtw2 kinds of fish.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'I got your message,' I said.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Oh, are you Bertie Wooster?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Absolutely. And this is my pal George Caffyn. Writes plays and \expndtw5 what not, don't you know.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 We all shook hands, and the policeman, having retrieved a piece \expndtw2 of chewing-gum from the underside of a chair, where he had parked \expndtw-1 it against a rainy day, went off into a corner and began to contemplate \expndtw2 the infinite.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'This is a rotten country,' said Cyril.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Oh, I don't know, you know, don't you know!' I said.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'We do our best,' said George.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw7 'Old George is an American,' I explained. 'Writes plays, don't \expndtw4 you know, and what not.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Of course, I didn't invent the country,' said George. 'That was \expndtw4 Columbus. But I shall be delighted to consider any improvements you may suggest and lay them before the proper authorities.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Well, why don't the policemen in New York dress properly?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 George took a look at the chewing officer across the room.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'I don't see anything missing,' he said.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'I mean to say, why don't they they wear helmets like they do in \expndtw2 London? Why do they look like postmen? It isn't fair on a fellow. \expndtw1 Makes it dashed confusing. I was simply standing on the pavement, \expndtw0 looking at things, when a fellow who looked like a postman prodded \expndtw2 me in the ribs with a club. I didn't see why I should have postmen \expndtw1 prodding me. Why the dickens should a fellow come three thousand \expndtw4 miles to be prodded by postmen?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'The point is well taken,' said George. 'What did you do?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'I gave him a shove, you know. I've got a frightfully hasty temper, you know. All the Bassington-Bassingtons have got frightfully hasty \expndtw5 tempers, don't you know! And then he biffed me in the eye and \expndtw4 tugged me off to this beastly place.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw10 Til fix it, old son,' I said. And I hauled out the bank-roll and\cf0\expndtw0  \cf1 went off to open negotiations, leaving Cyril to talk to George. I don't \expndtw6 mind admitting that I was a bit perturbed. There were furrows in \expndtw1 the old brow, and I had a kind of foreboding feeling. As long as this chump stayed in New York, I was responsible for him: and he didn't \expndtw2 give me the impression of being the species of cove a reasonable chappie would care to be responsible for for more than about three \expndtw1 minutes.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 I mused with a considerable amount of tensity over Cyril that \expndtw4 night, when I had got home and Jeeves had brought me the final \expndtw2 whisky, I couldn't help feeling that this first visit of his to America \expndtw6 was going to be one of those times that try men's souls and what not. I hauled out Aunt Agatha's letter of introduction and re-read \expndtw2 it, and there was no getting away from the fact that she undoubtedly \expndtw1 appeared to be somewhat wrapped up in this blighter and to consider \expndtw2 it my mission in life to shield him from harm while on the premises. \expndtw3 I was deuced thankful that he had taken such a liking for George \expndtw2 Caffyn, old George being a steady sort of cove. After I had got him \expndtw3 out of his dungeon-cell, he and George had gone off together, as chummy as brothers, to watch the afternoon rehearsal of \i Ask Dad. \expndtw7\i0 There was some talk, I gathered, of their dining together. I felt \expndtw4 pretty easy in my mind while George had his eye on him.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 I had got about as far as this in my meditations, when Jeeves came \expndtw5 in with a telegram. At least, it wasn't a telegram: it was a cable -\expndtw4 from Aunt Agatha, and this is what it said:-\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-3\i Has Cyril Bassington-Bassington called yet? \par
On no account introduce \expndtw-1 him into theatrical circles.\par
Vitally important. \par
Letter follows.\cf0\expndtw0\i0\par
\par
\cf1\expndtw5 I read it a couple of times.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'This is rummy, Jeeves!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Yes, sir?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Very rummy and dashed disturbing!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Will there be anything further tonight, sir?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 Of course, if he was going to be as bally unsympathetic as that there was nothing to be done. My idea had been to show him the \expndtw3 cable and ask his advice. But if he was letting those purple socks \expndtw0 rankle to that extent, the good old \i noblesse oblige \i0 of the Woosters \expndtw2 couldn't lower itself to the extent of pleading with the man. Abso\expndtw3 lutely not. So I gave it a miss.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Nothing more, thanks.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'Good night, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'Good night.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 He floated away, and I sat down to think the thing over. I had \expndtw2 been directing the best efforts of the old bean to the problem for a \expndtw4 matter of half an hour, when there was a ring at the bell. I went to \expndtw3 the door, and there was Cyril, looking pretty festive.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'I'll come in for a bit if I may,' he said. 'Got something rather \expndtw3 priceless to tell you.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 He curveted past me into the sitting-room, and when I got there \expndtw7 after shutting the front door I found him reading Aunt Agatha's \expndtw4 cable and giggling in a rummy sort of manner. 'Oughtn't to have \expndtw6 looked at this, I suppose. Caught sight of my name and read it \expndtw5 without thinking. I say, Wooster, old friend of my youth, this is \expndtw6 rather funny. Do you mind if I have a drink? Thanks awfully and \expndtw5 all that sort of rot. Yes, it's rather funny, considering what I came \expndtw-1 to tell you. Jolly old Caffyn has given me a small part in that musical \expndtw2 comedy of his, \i Ask Dad. \i0 Only a bit, you know, but quite tolerably \expndtw3 ripe. I'm feeling frightfully braced, don't you know!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw8 He drank his drink, and went on. He didn't seem to notice that \expndtw3 I wasn't jumping about the room, yapping with joy.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'You know, I've always wanted to go on the stage, you know,' he said. 'But my jolly old guv'nor wouldn't stick it at any price. Put the old Waukeesi down with a bang, and turned bright purple whenever \expndtw2 the subject was mentioned. That's the real reason why I came over here, if you want to know. I knew there wasn't a chance of my being \expndtw1 able to work this stage wheeze in London without somebody getting \expndtw3 on to it and tipping off the guv'nor, so I rather brainily sprang the \expndtw1 scheme of popping over to Washington to broaden my mind. There's \expndtw5 nobody to interfere on this side, you see, so I can go right ahead!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 I tried to reason with the poor chump.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'But your guv'nor will have to know some time.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 That'll be all right. I shall be the jolly old star by then, and he won't have a leg to stand on.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'It seems to me he'll have one leg to stand on while he kicks me \expndtw5 with the other.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Why, where do you come in? What have you got to do with it?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'I introduced you to George Caffyn.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'So you did, old top, so you did. I'd quite forgotten. I ought to \expndtw4 have thanked you before. Well, so long. There's an early rehearsal \expndtw2 of \i Ask Dad \i0 tomorrow morning, and I must be toddling. Rummy the thing should be called \i Ask Dad, \i0 when that's just what I'm not going \expndtw4 to do. See what I mean, what, what? Well, pip-pip!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'Toodle-oo!' I said sadly, and the blighter scudded off. I dived \expndtw5 for the phone and called up George Caffyn.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'I say, George, what's all this about Cyril Bassington-Bassington?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'What about him?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'He tells me you've given him a part in your show.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Oh, yes. Just a few lines.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'But I've just had fifty-seven cables from home telling me on no \expndtw5 account to let him go on the stage.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'I'm sorry. But Cyril is just the type I need for that part. He's \expndtw3 simply got to be himself.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'It's pretty tough on me, George, old man. My Aunt Agatha sent \expndtw4 this blighter over with a letter of introduction to me, and she will hold me responsible.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'She'll cut you out of her will?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'It isn't a question of money. But - of course, you've never met \expndtw3 my Aunt Agatha, so it's rather hard to explain. But she's a sort of \expndtw1 human vampire-bat, and she'll make things most fearfully unpleasant \expndtw3 for me when I go back to England. She's the kind of woman who \expndtw4 comes and rags you before breakfast, don't you know.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Well, don't go back to England, then. Stick here and become President.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw7 'But, George, old top - !'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Good night!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'But, I say, George, old man!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'You didn't get my last remark. It was "Good night!" You Idle \expndtw4 Rich may not need any sleep, but I've got to be bright and fresh in \expndtw5 the morning. God bless you!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 I felt as if I hadn't a friend in the world. I was so jolly well worked \expndtw7 up that I went and banged on Jeeves's door. It wasn't a thing I'd \expndtw6 have cared to do as a rule, but it seemed to me that now was the \expndtw4 time for all good men to come to the aid of the party, so to speak, \expndtw5 and that it was up to Jeeves to rally round the young master, even \expndtw4 if it broke up his beauty-sleep.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 Jeeves emerged in a brown dressing gown.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Sir?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Deuced sorry to wake you up, Jeeves, and what not, but all sorts \expndtw4 of dashed disturbing things have been happening.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'I was not asleep. It is my practice, on retiring, to read a few pages \expndtw3 of some instructive book.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'That's good! What I mean to say is, if you've just finished exercis\expndtw1 ing the old bean, it's probably in mid-season form for tackling \expndtw-2 problems. Jeeves, Mr Bassington-Bassington is going on the stage!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Indeed, sir?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 'Ah! The thing doesn't hit you! You don't get it properly! Here's \expndtw-4 the point. All his family are most fearfully dead against his going on \expndtw2 the stage. There's going to be no end of trouble if he isn't headed \expndtw-2 off. And, what's worse, my Aunt Agatha will blame \i me, \i0 you see.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'I see, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 'Well, can't you think of some way of stopping him?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Not, I confess, at the moment, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Well, have a stab at it.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-2 'I will give the matter my best consideration, sir. Will there be \expndtw-1 anything further tonight?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'I hope not! I've had all I can stand already.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-2 'Very good, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 He popped off.\cf0\par
\par
\cf1\expndtw-44\ul\b 10\expndtw0\tab\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw-5 Startling Dressiness of a Lift \expndtw-6 Attendant\cf0\expndtw0\ulnone\b0\par
\par
\cf1\expndtw7 The part which old George had written for the chump Cyril took \expndtw5 up about two pages of typescript; but it might have been Hamlet, \expndtw3 the way that poor, misguided pinhead worked himself to the bone \expndtw1 over it. I suppose, if I heard him read his lines once, I did it a dozen \expndtw2 times in the first couple of days. He seemed to think that my only \expndtw4 feeling about the whole affair was one of enthusiastic admiration, \expndtw6 and that he could rely on my support and sympathy. What with \expndtw0 trying to imagine how Aunt Agatha was going to take this thing, and \expndtw2 being woken up out of the dreamless in the small hours every other \expndtw4 night to give my opinion of some new bit of business which Cyril had invented, I became more or less the good old shadow. And all \expndtw6 the time Jeeves remained still pretty cold and distant about the \expndtw4 purple socks. It's this sort of thing that ages a chappie, don't you \expndtw2 know, and makes his youthful \i joie-de-vivre \i0 go a bit groggy at the \expndtw1 knees.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 In the middle of it Aunt Agatha's letter arrived. It took her about \expndtw4 six pages to do justice to Cyril's father's feelings in regard to his \expndtw5 going on the stage and about six more to give me a kind of sketch \expndtw2 of what she would say, think, and do if I didn't keep him clear of \expndtw5 injurious influences while he was in America. The letter came by \expndtw1 the afternoon mail, and left me with a pretty firm conviction that it \expndtw5 wasn't a thing I ought to keep to myself. I didn't even wait to ring \expndtw4 the bell: I whizzed for the kitchen, bleating for Jeeves, and butted \expndtw5 into the middle of a regular tea-party of sorts. Seated at the table \expndtw3 were a depressed-looking cove who might have been a valet or \expndtw5 something, and a boy in a Norfolk suit. The valet-chappie was \expndtw1 drinking a whisky and soda, and the boy was being tolerably rough \expndtw4 with some jam and cake.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Oh, I say, Jeeves!' I said. 'Sorry to interrupt the feast of reason \expndtw7 and flow of soul and so forth, but -'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw7 At this juncture the small boy's eye hit me like a bullet and \expndtw0 stopped me in my tracks. It was one of those cold, clammy, accusing sort of eyes - the kind that makes you reach up to see if your tie is \expndtw1 straight: and he looked at me as if I were some sort of unnecessary \expndtw8 product which Cuthbert the Cat had brought in after a ramble \expndtw5 among the local ash-cans. He was a stoutish infant with a lot of \expndtw4 freckles and a good deal of jam on his face.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw7 'Hallo! Hallo! Hallo!' I said. 'What?' There didn't seem much \expndtw0 else to say.\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 The stripling stared at me in a nasty sort of way through the jam. \expndtw1 He may have loved me at first sight, but the impression he gave me \expndtw2 was that he didn't think a lot of me and wasn't betting much that I \expndtw1 would improve a great deal on acquaintance. I had a kind of feeling \expndtw4 that I was about as popular with him as a cold Welsh rarebit.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'What's your name?' he asked.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'My name? Oh, Wooster, don't you know, and what not.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'My pop's richer than you are!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 That seemed to be all about me. The child having said his say, \expndtw5 started in on the jam again. I turned to Jeeves:\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'I say, Jeeves, can you spare a moment? I want to show you \expndtw2 something.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Very good, sir.' We toddled into the sitting-room.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Who is your little friend, Sidney the Sunbeam, Jeeves?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'The young gentleman, sir?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'It's a loose way of describing him, but I know what you mean.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'I trust I was not taking a liberty in entertaining him, sir?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Not a bit. If that's your idea of a large afternoon, go ahead.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'I happened to meet the young gentleman taking a walk with his \expndtw3 father's valet, sir, whom I used to know somewhat intimately in \expndtw6 London, and I ventured to invite them both to join me here.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Well, never mind about him, Jeeves. Read this letter.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 He gave it the up-and-down.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Very disturbing, sir!' was all he could find to say.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'What are we going to do about it?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Time may provide a solution, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'On the other hand, it mayn't, what?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Extremely true, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw11 We'd got as far as this, when there was a ring at the door. \expndtw1 Jeeves shimmered off, and Cyril blew in, full of good cheer and blitheringness.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'I say, Wooster, old thing,' he said, 'I want your advice. You know\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw7 this jolly old part of mine. How ought I to dress it? What I mean \expndtw6 is, the first act scene is laid in an hotel of sorts, at about three in \expndtw5 the afternoon. What ought I to wear, do you think?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 I wasn't feeling fit for a discussion of gent's suitings.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'You'd better consult Jeeves,' I said.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'A hot and by no means unripe idea! Where is he?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'Gone back to the kitchen, I suppose.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 Til smite the good old bell, shall I? Yes. No?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Right-o!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 Jeeves poured silently in.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Oh, I say, Jeeves,' began Cyril, 'I just wanted to have a syllable \expndtw5 or two with you. It's this way - Hallo, who's this?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 I then perceived that the stout stripling had trickled into the room \expndtw6 after Jeeves. He was standing near the door looking at Cyril as if \expndtw3 his worst fears had been realized. There was a bit of a silence. The \expndtw2 child remained there, drinking Cyril in for about half a minute; then he gave his verdict:\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Fish-face!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Eh? What?' said Cyril.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 The child, who had evidently been taught at his mother's knee to \expndtw5 speak the truth, made his meaning a trifle clearer.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'You've a face like a fish!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 He spoke as if Cyril was more to be pitied than censured, which \expndtw4 I am bound to say I thought rather decent and broadminded of him. \expndtw5 I don't mind admitting that, whenever I looked at Cyril's face, I \expndtw2 always had a feeling that he couldn't have got that way without its \expndtw0 being mostly his own fault. I found myself warming to this child. \expndtw3 Absolutely, don't you know. I liked his conversation.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 It seemed to take Cyril a moment or two really to grasp the thing, \expndtw3 and then you could hear the blood of the Bassington-Bassingtons \expndtw2 begin to sizzle.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw7 'Well, I'm dashed!' he said. 'I'm dashed if I'm not!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'I wouldn't have a face like that,' proceeded the child, with a good \expndtw0 deal of earnestness, 'not if you gave me a million dollars.' He thought \expndtw6 for a moment, then corrected himself. 'Two million dollars!' he \expndtw2 added.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 Just what occurred then I couldn't exactly say, but the next few \expndtw5 minutes were a bit exciting. I take it that Cyril must have made a \expndtw4 dive for the infant. Anyway, the air seemed pretty well congested \expndtw2 with arms and legs and things. Something bumped into the Wooster \expndtw9 waistcoat just around the third button, and I collapsed on to the\cf0\expndtw0  \cf1\expndtw2 settee and rather lost interest in things for the moment. When I had \expndtw4 unscrambled myself, I found that Jeeves and the child had retired \expndtw5 and Cyril was standing in the middle of the room snorting a bit.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Who's that frightful little brute, Wooster?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'I don't know. I never saw him before today.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'I gave him a couple of tolerably juicy buffets before he legged it. \expndtw4 I say, Wooster, that kid said a dashed odd thing. He yelled out something about Jeeves promising him a dollar if he called me - er \expndtw8 - what he said.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 It sounded pretty unlikely to me.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'What would Jeeves do that for?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'It struck me as rummy, too.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Where would be the sense of it?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw8 'That's what I can't see.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'I mean to say, it's nothing to Jeeves what sort of face you have!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'No!' said Cyril. He spoke a little coldly, I fancied. I don't know \expndtw4 why. 'Well, I'll be popping. Toodle-oo!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Pip-pip!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 It must have been about a week after this rummy little episode \expndtw6 that George Caffyn called me up and asked me if I would care to \expndtw3 go and see a run-through of his show. \i Ask Dad, \i0 it seemed, was to \expndtw1 open out of town in Schenectady on the following Monday, and this \expndtw2 was to be a sort of preliminary dress-rehearsal. A preliminary dress-\expndtw1 rehearsal, old George explained, was the same as a regular dress-\expndtw4 rehearsal inasmuch as it was apt to look like nothing on earth and \expndtw5 last into the small hours, but more exciting because they wouldn't \expndtw2 be timing the piece and consequently all the blighters who on these \expndtw4 occasions let their angry passions rise would have plenty of scope for interruptions, with the result that a pleasant time would be had \expndtw-2 by all.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 The thing was billed to start at eight o'clock, so I rolled up at \expndtw6 ten-fifteen, so as not to have too long to wait before they began. \expndtw7 The dress-parade was still going on. George was on the stage, \expndtw4 talking to a cove in shirt-sleeves and an absolutely round chappie \expndtw7 with big spectacles and a practically hairless dome. I had seen \expndtw6 George with the latter merchant once or twice at the club, and I knew that he was Blumenfield, the manager. I waved to George, \expndtw4 and slid into a seat at the back of the house, so as to be out of the way when the fighting started. Presently George hopped down off \expndtw9 the stage and came and joined me, and fairly soon after that the\cf0\expndtw0  \cf1\expndtw3 curtain went down. The chappie at the piano whacked out a well-\expndtw5 meant bar or two, and the curtain went up again.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 I can't quite recall what the plot of \i Ask Dad \i0 was about, but I do know that it seemed able to jog along all right without much help \expndtw1 from Cyril. I was rather puzzled at first. What I mean is, through \expndtw3 brooding on Cyril and hearing him in his part and listening to his \expndtw6 views on what ought and what ought not to be done, I suppose I \expndtw7 had got a sort of impression rooted in the old bean that he was pretty well the backbone of the show, and that the rest of the \expndtw2 company didn't do much except go on and fill in when he happened \expndtw5 to be off the stage. I sat there for nearly half an hour, waiting for \expndtw4 him to make his entrance, until I suddenly discovered he had been \expndtw6 on from the start. He was, in fact, the rummy-looking plug-ugly \expndtw5 who was now leaning against a potted palm a couple of feet from \expndtw3 the O.P. side, trying to appear intelligent while the heroine sang a \expndtw2 song about Love being like something which for the moment has slipped my memory. After the second refrain he began to dance in \expndtw0 company with a dozen other equally weird birds. A painful spectacle \expndtw5 for one who could see a vision of Aunt Agatha reaching for the \expndtw1 hatchet and old Bassington-Bassington senior putting on his strong\expndtw3 est pair of hob-nailed boots. Absolutely!\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 The dance had just finished, and Cyril and his pals had shuffled \expndtw6 off into the wings when a voice spoke from the darkness on my \expndtw-1 right.\cf0\expndtw0\par
'\cf1\expndtw10 Pop!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 Old Blumenfield clapped his hands, and the hero, who had just \expndtw0 been about to get the next line off his diaphragm, cheesed it. I peered \expndtw1 into the shadows. Who should it be but Jeeves's little playmate with \expndtw2 the freckles! He was now strolling down the aisle with his hands in \expndtw3 his pockets as if the place belonged to him. An air of respectful \expndtw4 attention seemed to pervade the building.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Pop,' said the stripling, 'that number's no good.' Old Blumenfield \expndtw4 beamed over his shoulder.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Don't you like it, darling?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'It gives me a pain.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'You're dead right.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'You want something zippy there. Something with a bit of jazz to \expndtw0 it!'\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Quite right my boy. I'll make a note of it. All right. Go on!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 I turned to George, who was muttering to himself in rather an \expndtw-1 overwrought way.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'I say, George, old man, who the dickens is that kid?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-3 Old George groaned a bit hollowly, as if things were a trifle thick.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'I didn't know he had crawled in! It's Blumenfield's son. Now \expndtw1 we're going to have a Hades of a time!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'Does he always run things like this?'\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw-4 'Always!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'But why does old Blumenfield listen to him?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Nobody seems to know. It may be pure fatherly love, or he may \expndtw2 regard him as a mascot. My own idea is that he thinks the kid has exactly the amount of intelligence of the average member of the \expndtw1 audience, and that what makes a hit with him will please the general public. While, conversely, what he doesn't like will be too rotten for \expndtw6 anyone. The kid is a pest, a wart, and a pot of poison, and should \expndtw4 be strangled!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 The rehearsal went on. The hero got off his line. There was a \expndtw4 slight outburst of frightfulness between the stage-manager and a \expndtw5 Voice named Bill that came from somewhere near the roof, the \expndtw3 subject under discussion being where the devil Bill's 'ambers' were \expndtw6 at that particular juncture. Then things went on again until the \expndtw4 moment arrived for Cyril's big scene.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 I was still a trifle hazy about the plot, but I had got on to the fact \expndtw1 that Cyril was some sort of an English peer who had come over to \expndtw2 America doubtless for the best reasons. So far he had only had two lines to say. One was 'Oh, I say!' and the other was 'Yes, by Jove!'; \expndtw1 but I seemed to recollect, from hearing him read his part, that pretty \expndtw7 soon he was due rather to spread himself. I sat back in my chair \expndtw5 and waited for him to bob up.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw7 He bobbed up about five minutes later. Things had got a bit \expndtw6 stormy by that time. The Voice and the stage-director had had \expndtw5 another of their love-feasts - this time something to do with why Bills' 'blues' weren't on the job or something. And, almost as soon \expndtw0 as that was over, there was a bit of unpleasantness because a flower\expndtw1 pot fell off a window-ledge and nearly brained the hero. The atmosphere was consequently more or less hotted up when Cyril, who had \expndtw4 been hanging about at the back of the stage, breezed down centre \expndtw3 and toed the mark for his most substantial chunk of entertainment. \expndtw7 The heroine had been saying something - I forget what - and all \expndtw6 the chorus, with Cyril at their head, had begun to surge round her \expndtw1 in the restless sort of way those chappies always do when there's a \expndtw3 number coming along.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 Cyril's first line was, 'Oh, I say, you know, you mustn't say that,\cf0\expndtw0  \cf1\expndtw1 really!' and it seemed to me he passed it over the larynx with a \expndtw-2 goodish deal of vim and \i je-ne-sais-quoi. \i0 But, by Jove, before the \expndtw-4 heroine had time for the come-back, our little friend with the freckles \expndtw1 had risen to lodge a protest.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 'Pop!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-3 'Yes, darling?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw8 'That one's no good.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Which one, darling?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'The one with a face like a fish.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'But they all have faces like fish, darling.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 The child seemed to see the justice of this objection. He became \expndtw2 more definite.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw7 'The ugly one.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Which ugly one? That one?' said old Blumenfield, pointing to \expndtw-4 Cyril.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'Yep! He's rotten!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'I thought so myself.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'He's a pill!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'You're dead right, my boy. I've noticed it for some time.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 Cyril had been gaping a bit while these few remarks were in \expndtw5 progress. He now shot down to the footlights. Even from where I \expndtw2 was sitting, I could see that these harsh words had hit the old \expndtw1 Bassington-Bassington family pride a frightful wallop. He started to \expndtw6 get pink in the ears, and then in the nose, and then in the cheeks, \expndtw3 till in about a quarter of a minute he looked pretty much like an \expndtw4 explosion in a tomato cannery on a sunset evening.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'What the deuce do you mean?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'What the deuce do \i you \i0 mean?' shouted old Blumenfield. 'Don't \expndtw3 yell at me across the footlights!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw7 'I've a dashed good mind to come down and spank that little \expndtw4 brute!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'What!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'A dashed good mind!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 Old Blumenfield swelled like a pumped-up tyre. He got rounder than ever.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw8 'See here, mister - I don't know your darn name - !'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'My name's Bassington-Bassington, and the jolly old Bassington-\expndtw15 Bassingtons - I mean the Bassington-Bassingtons aren't \expndtw10 accustomed -'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 Old Blumenfield told him in a few brief words pretty much what \expndtw8 he thought of the Bassington-Bassingtons and what they weren't\cf0\expndtw0  \cf1\expndtw2 accustomed to. The whole strength of the company rallied round to \expndtw4 enjoy his remarks. You could see them jutting out from the wings \expndtw5 and protruding from behind trees.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'You got to work good for my pop!' said the stout child, waggling \expndtw2 his head reprovingly at Cyril.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'I don't want any bally cheek from you!' said Cyril, gurgling a bit.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'What's that?' barked old Blumenfield. 'Don't you understand that this boy is my son?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Yes, I do,' said Cyril. 'And you both have my sympathy!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 'You're fired!' bellowed old Blumenfield, swelling a good bit more. \expndtw6 'Get out of my theatre!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\par
\cf1\expndtw1 About half past ten next morning, just after I had finished lubricating \expndtw2 the good old ulterior with a soothing cup of Oolong, Jeeves filtered \expndtw1 into my bedroom, and said that Cyril was waiting to see me in the sitting-room.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'How does he look, Jeeves?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Sir?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'What does Mr Bassington-Bassington look like?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'It is hardly my place, sir, to criticize the facial peculiarities of \expndtw4 your friends.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'I don't mean that. I mean, does he appear peeved and what not?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Not noticeably, sir. His manner is tranquil.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw9 'That's rum!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Sir?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Nothing. Show him in, will you?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 I'm bound to say I had expected to see Cyril showing a few more \expndtw0 traces of last night's battle. I was looking for a bit of the overwrought \expndtw5 soul and the quivering ganglions, if you know what I mean. He \expndtw3 seemed pretty ordinary and quite fairly cheerful.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Hallo, Wooster, old thing!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Cheero!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'I just looked in to say goodbye.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Goodbye?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Yes. I'm off to Washington in an hour.' He sat down on the bed. 'You know, Wooster, old top,' he went on, 'I've been thinking it all \expndtw5 over, and really it doesn't seem quite fair to the jolly old guv'nor, \expndtw4 my going on the stage and so forth. What do you think?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'I see what you mean.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'I mean to say, he sent me over here to broaden my jolly old mind \expndtw5 and words to that effect, don't you know, and I can't help thinking\cf0\expndtw0  \cf1\expndtw3 it would be a bit of a jar for the old boy if I gave him the bird and \expndtw4 went on the stage instead. I don't know if you understand me, but \expndtw5 what I mean to say is, it's a sort of question of conscience.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Can you leave the show without upsetting everything?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Oh, that's all right. I've explained everything to old Blumenfield, \expndtw6 and he quite sees my position. Of course, he's sorry to lose me -said he didn't see how he could fill my place and all that sort of thing - but, after all, even if it does land him in a bit of a hole, I \expndtw4 think I'm right in resigning my part, don't you?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Oh, absolutely.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'I thought you'd agree with me. Well, I ought to be shifting. \expndtw0 Awfully glad to have seen something of you, and all that sort of rot. \expndtw2 Pip-pip!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'Toodle-oo!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 He sallied forth, having told all those bally lies with the clear, \expndtw1 blue, pop-eyed gaze of a young child. I rang for Jeeves. You know, \expndtw5 ever since last night I had been exercising the old bean to some extent, and a good deal of light had dawned upon me.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 'Jeeves!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Sir?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Did you put that pie-faced infant up to bally-ragging Mr Bassington-Bassington?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Sir?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Oh, you know what I mean. Did you tell him to get Mr Bassing\expndtw2 ton-Bassington sacked from the \i Ask Dad \i0 company?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'I would not take such a liberty, sir.' He started to put out my \expndtw3 clothes. 'It is possible that young Master Blumenfield may have \expndtw5 gathered from casual remarks of mine that I did not consider the \expndtw4 stage altogether a suitable sphere for Mr Bassington-Bassington.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'I say, Jeeves, you know, you're a bit of a marvel.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'I endeavour to give satisfaction, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'And I'm frightfully obliged, if you know what I mean. Aunt \expndtw0 Agatha would have had sixteen or seventeen fits if you hadn't headed \expndtw3 him off.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'I fancy there might have been some little friction and unpleasant\expndtw6 ness, sir. I am laying out the blue suit with the thin red stripe, sir. \expndtw3 I fancy the effect will be pleasing.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\par
\cf1\expndtw5 It's a rummy thing, but I had finished breakfast and gone out and \expndtw6 got as far as the lift before I remembered what it was that I had \expndtw7 meant to do to reward Jeeves for his really sporting behaviour in\cf0\expndtw0  \cf1\expndtw7 this matter of the chump Cyril. It cut me to the heart to do it, but \expndtw4 I had decided to give him his way and let those purple socks pass \expndtw2 out of my life. After all, there are times when a cove must make \expndtw3 sacrifices. I was just going to nip back and break the glad news to him, when the lift came up, so I thought I would leave it till I got \expndtw1 home.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 The coloured chappie in charge of the lift looked at me, as I \expndtw4 hopped in, with a good deal of quiet devotion and what not.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'I wish to thank yo', suh,' he said, 'for yo' kindness.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Eh? What?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Misto' Jeeves done give them purple socks, as you told him. Thank yo' very much, suh!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 I looked down. The blighter was a blaze of mauve from the ankle-\expndtw4 bone southward. I don't know when I've seen anything so dressy.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Oh, ah! Not at all! Right-o! Glad you like them!' I said.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 Well, I mean to say, what? Absolutely!\cf0\expndtw0\par
\par
\ul\b 11\par
Comrade Bingo\ulnone\b0\par
\par
\cf1\expndtw9 The thing really started in the park - at the Marble Arch end -\expndtw1 where weird birds of every description collect on Sunday afternoons \expndtw6 and stand on soap-boxes and make speeches. It isn't often you'll \expndtw8 find me there, but it so happened that on the Sabbath after my \expndtw4 return to the good old metrop. I had a call to pay in Manchester \expndtw1 Square, and, taking a stroll round in that direction so as not to arrive \expndtw4 too early, I found myself right in the middle of it.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 Now that the Empire isn't the place it was, I always think the park \expndtw4 on a Sunday is the centre of London, if you know what I mean. I \expndtw2 mean to say, that's the spot that makes the returned exile really sure he's back again. After what you might call my enforced sojourn in \expndtw6 New York I'm bound to say that I stood there fairly lapping it all up. It did me good to listen to the lads giving tongue and realize \expndtw5 that all had ended happily and Bertram was home again.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 On the edge of the mob farthest away from me a gang of top-\expndtw2 hatted chappies were starting an open-air missionary service; nearer at hand an atheist was letting himself go with a good deal of vim, though handicapped a bit by having no roof to his mouth; while in \expndtw6 front of me there stood a little group of serious thinkers with a \expndtw5 banner labelled 'Heralds of the Red Dawn'; and as I came up, one \expndtw2 of the heralds, a bearded egg in a slouch hat and a tweed suit, was \expndtw4 slipping it into the Idle Rich with such breadth and vigour that I \expndtw3 paused for a moment to get an earful. While I was standing there somebody spoke to me.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Mr Wooster, surely?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 Stout chappie. Couldn't place him for a second. Then I got him. \expndtw7 Bingo Little's uncle, the one I had lunch with at the time when \expndtw3 young Bingo was in love with that waitress at the Piccadilly bun-shop. No wonder I hadn't recognized him at first. When I had seen \expndtw4 him last he had been a rather sloppy old gentleman - coming down \expndtw0 to lunch, I remember, in carpet slippers and a velvet smoking-jacket; \expndtw1 whereas now dapper simply wasn't the word. He absolutely gleamed\cf0\expndtw0  \cf1 in the sunlight in a silk hat, morning coat, lavender spats and sponge-\expndtw4 bag trousers, as now worn. Dressy to a degree.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Oh, hallo!' I said. 'Going strong?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'I am in excellent health, I thank you. And you?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'In the pink. Just been over to America.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Ah! Collecting local colour for one of your delightful romances?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Eh?' I had to think a bit before I got on to what he meant. 'Oh, \expndtw6 no,' I said. 'Just felt I needed a change. Seen anything of Bingo \expndtw2 lately?' I asked quickly, being desirous of heading the old thing off \expndtw3 what you might call the literary side of my life.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'Bingo?'\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Your nephew.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Oh, Richard? No, not very recently. Since my marriage a little \expndtw4 coolness seems to have sprung up.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Sorry to hear that. So you've married since I saw you, what? Mrs \expndtw2 Little all right?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'My wife is happily robust. But - er - \i not \i0 Mrs Little. Since we \expndtw2 last met a gracious Sovereign has been pleased to bestow on me a signal mark of his favour in the shape of - ah - a peerage. On the \expndtw5 publication of the last Honours List I became Lord Bittlesham.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'By Jove! Really? I say, heartiest congratulations. That's the stuff \expndtw0 to give the troops, what? Lord Bittlesham?' I said. 'Why, you're the \expndtw4 owner of Ocean Breeze.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Yes. Marriage has enlarged my horizon in many directions. My wife is interested in horse-racing, and I now maintain a small stable. \expndtw10 I understand that Ocean Breeze is fancied, as I am told the \expndtw6 expression is, for a race which will take place at the end of the month at Goodwood, the Duke of Richmond's seat in Sussex.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'The Goodwood Cup. Rather! I've got my chemise on it for one.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Indeed? Well, I trust the animal will justify your confidence. I \expndtw0 know littie of tiiese matters myself, but my wife tells me that it is regarded in knowledgeable circles as what I believe is termed a snip.'\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 At this moment I suddenly noticed that the audience was gazing \expndtw5 in our direction with a good deal of interest, and I saw that the \expndtw4 bearded chappie was pointing at us.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'Yes, look at them! Drink them in!' he was yelling, his voice rising \expndtw1 above the perpetual-motion fellow's and beating the missionary ser\expndtw9 vice all to nodiing. 'There you see two typical members of the \expndtw4 class which has down-trodden the poor for centuries. Idlers! Non-\expndtw6 producers! Look at the tall thin one widi the face like a motor-mascot. Has he ever done an honest day's work in his life? No! A\cf0\expndtw0  \cf1 prowler, a trifler, and a blood-sucker! And I bet he still owes his tailor for diose trousers!'\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 He seemed to me to be verging on the personal, and I didn't \expndtw-3 diink a lot of it. Old Bittlesham, on the other hand, was pleased and \expndtw-4 amused.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'A great gift of expression these fellows have,' he chuckled. 'Very \expndtw4 trenchant.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw7 'And the fat one!' proceeded the chappie. 'Don't miss him. Do \expndtw3 you know who that is? That's Lord Bittlesham! One of the worst. What has he ever done except eat four square meals a day? His god \expndtw5 is his belly, and he sacrifices burnt-offerings to it. If you opened \expndtw1 that man now you would find enough lunch to support ten working-\expndtw2 class families for a week.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'You know, thal's rather well put,' I said, but the old boy didn't \expndtw1 seem to see it. He had turned a brightish magenta and was bubbling \expndtw3 like a kettle on the boil.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Come away, Mr Wooster,' he said. 'I am the last man to oppose \expndtw5 the right of free speech, but I refuse to listen to diis vulgar abuse \expndtw2 any longer.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 We legged it widi quiet dignity, the chappie pursuing us with his \expndtw4 foul innuendoes to the last. Dashed embarrassing.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\par
\cf1\expndtw1 Next day I looked in at the club, and found, young Bingo in the \expndtw0 smoking-room.\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 'Hallo, Bingo,' I said, toddling over to his corner full of \i bonhomie, \expndtw5\i0 for I was glad to see the chump. 'How's the boy?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Jogging along.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'I saw your uncle yesterday.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 Young Bingo unleashed a grin that split his face in half.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'I know you did, you trifler. Well, sit down, old tiling, and suck \expndtw4 a bit of blood. How's the prowling these days?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'Good Lord! You weren't there!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Yes, I was.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'I didn't see you.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw7 'Yes, you did. But perhaps you didn't recognize me in the \expndtw3 shrubbery.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'The shrubbery?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'The beard, my boy. Worth every penny I paid for it. Defies \expndtw9 detection. Of course, it's a nuisance having people shouting \expndtw6 "Beaver!" at you all the time, but one's got to put up with that.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 I goggled at him.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw7 'I don't understand.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'It's a long story. Have a martini or a small gore-and-soda, and \expndtw0 I'll tell you all about it. Before we start, give me your honest opinion. \expndtw4 Isn't she the most wonderful girl you ever saw in your puff?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 He had produced a photograph from somewhere, like a conjurer \expndtw4 taking a rabbit out of a hat, and was waving it in front of me. It appeared to be a female of sorts, all eyes and teeth.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'Oh, Great Scott!' I said. 'Don't tell me you're in love again.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 He seemed aggrieved.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'What do you mean - again?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Well, to my certain knowledge you've been in love with at least \expndtw6 half a dozen girls since the spring, and it's only July now. There \expndtw7 was that waitress and Honoria Glossop and -'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Oh, tush! Not to say pish! Those girls? Mere passing fancies. \expndtw6 This is the real thing.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Where did you meet her?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'On top of a bus. Her name is Charlotte Corday Rowbotham.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'My God!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'It's not her fault, poor child. Her father had her christened that \expndtw2 because he's all for the Revolution, and it seems that the original \expndtw7 Charlotte Corday used to go about stabbing oppressors in their \expndtw5 baths, which entitles her to consideration and respect. You must \expndtw1 meet old Rowbotham, Bertie. A delightful chap. Wants to massacre \expndtw-2 the \i bourgeosie, \i0 sack Park Lane and disembowel the hereditary aristoc\expndtw1 racy. Well, nothing could be fairer than that, what? But about Char\expndtw7 lotte. We were on top of the bus, and it started to rain. I offered \expndtw3 her my umbrella, and we chatted of this and that. I fell in love and \expndtw2 got her address, and a couple of days later I bought the beard and \expndtw5 toddled round and met the family.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'But why the beard?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Well, she had told me all about her father on the bus, and I saw \expndtw1 that to get any footing at all in the home I should have to join these Red Dawn blighters; and naturally, if I was to make speeches in the \expndtw2 park, where at any moment I might run into a dozen people I knew, \expndtw6 something in the nature of a disguise was indicated. So I bought the beard, and, by Jove, old boy, I've become dashed attached to \expndtw2 the thing. When I take it off to come in here, for instance, I feel \expndtw5 absolutely nude. It's done me a lot of good with old Rowbotham. \expndtw1 He thinks I'm a Bolshevist of sorts who has to go about disguised because of the police. You really must meet old Rowbotham, Bertie. \expndtw3 I tell you what, are you doing anything tomorrow afternoon?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Nothing special. Why?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Good! Then you can have us all to tea at your flat. I had promised \expndtw5 to take the crowd to Lyons' Popular Cafe after a meeting we're \expndtw6 holding down in Lambeth, but I can save money this way; and, \expndtw0 believe me, laddie, nowadays, as far as I'm concerned, a penny saved \expndtw5 is a penny earned. My uncle told you he'd got married?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Yes. And he said there was a coolness between you.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Coolness? I'm down to zero. Ever since he married he's been \expndtw1 launching out in every direction and economizing on \i me. \i0 I suppose that peerage cost the old devil the deuce of a sum. Even baronetcies have gone up frightfully nowadays, I'm told. And he's started a racing-stable. By the way, put your last collar stud on Ocean Breeze \expndtw7 for the Goodwood Cup. It's a cert.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'I'm going to.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'It can't lose. I mean to win enough on it to marry Charlotte with. \expndtw4 You're going to Goodwood, of course?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Rather!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'So are we. We're holding a meeting on Cup day just outside the paddock.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'But, I say, aren't you taking frightful risks? Your uncle's sure to \expndtw5 be at Goodwood. Suppose he spots you? He'll be fed to the gills if he finds out that you're the fellow who ragged him in the park.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'How the deuce is he to find out? Use your intelligence> you \expndtw3 prowling inhaler of red corpuscles. If he didn't spot me yesterday, \expndtw1 why should he spot me at Goodwood? Well, thanks for your cordial \expndtw2 invitation for tomorrow, old thing. We shall be delighted to accept. \expndtw4 Do us well, laddie, and blessings shall reward you. By the way, I \expndtw2 may have misled you by using the word "tea". None of your wafer \expndtw4 slices of bread-and-butter. We're good trenchermen, we of the \expndtw5 Revolution. What we shall require will be something on the order \expndtw2 of scrambled eggs, muffins, jam, ham, cake and sardines. Expect us \expndtw3 at five sharp.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw9 'But, I say, I'm not quite sure -'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Yes, you are. Silly ass, don't you see that this is going to do you \expndtw1 a bit of good when the Revolution breaks loose? When you see old \expndtw3 Rowbotham sprinting up Piccadilly with a dripping knife in each hand, you'll be jolly thankful to be able to remind him that he once \expndtw5 ate your tea and shrimps. There will be four of us Charlotte, self, \expndtw2 the old man, and Comrade Butt. I suppose he will insist on coming \expndtw1 along.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Who the devil's Comrade Butt?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-3 'Did you notice a fellow standing on my left in our little troupe \expndtw-4 yesterday? Small, shrivelled chap. Looks like a haddock with lung-\expndtw-1 trouble. That's Butt. My rival, dash him. He's sort of semi-engaged \expndtw-2 to Charlotte at the moment. Till I came along he was the blue-eyed \expndtw1 boy. He's got a voice like a foghorn, and old Rowbotham thinks a lot of him. But, hang it, if I can't thoroughly encompass this Butt \expndtw0 and cut him out and put him where he belongs among the discards \expndtw1 - well, I'm not the man I was, that's all. He may have a big voice, but he hasn't my gift of expression. Thank heaven I was once cox \expndtw-1 of my college boat. Well, I must be pushing now. I say, you don't know how I could raise fifty quid somehow, do you?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 'Why don't you work?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-2 'Work?' said young Bingo, surprised. 'What, me? No, I shall have \expndtw2 to think of some way. I must put at least fifty on Ocean Breeze. \expndtw0 Well, see you tomorrow. God bless you, old sort, and don't forget \expndtw-1 the muffins.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\par
\cf1\expndtw1 I don't know why, ever since I first knew him at school, I should \expndtw-3 have felt a rummy feeling of responsibility for young Bingo. I mean \expndtw-2 to say, he's not my son (thank goodness) or my brother or anything \expndtw-3 like that. He's got absolutely no claim on me at all, and yet a large-\expndtw-2 sized chunk of my existence seems to be spent in fussing over him \expndtw1 like a bally old hen and hauling him out of the soup. I suppose it \expndtw0 must be some rare beauty in my nature or something. At any rate, this latest affair of his worried me. He seemed to be doing his best \expndtw2 to marry into a family of pronounced loonies, and how the deuce \expndtw0 he thought he was going to support even a mentally afflicted wife \expndtw-1 on nothing a year beat me. Old Bittlesham was bound to knock off \expndtw-2 his allowance if he did anything of the sort and, with a fellow like \expndtw0 young Bingo, if you knocked off his allowance, you might just as \expndtw1 well hit him on the head with an axe and make a clean job of it.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Jeeves,' I said, when I got home, 'I'm worried.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 'Sir?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'About Mr Little. I won't tell you about it now, because he's \expndtw-2 bringing some friends of his to tea tomorrow, and then you will be \expndtw-4 able to judge for yourself. I want you to observe closely, Jeeves, and \expndtw-1 form your decision.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 'Very good, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'And about the tea. Get in some muffins.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 'Yes, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-5 'And some jam, ham, cake, scrambled eggs, and five or six wagon-\expndtw0 loads of sardines.'\cf0\par
\cf1 'Sardines, sir?' said Jeeves, with a shudder.\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Sardines.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 There was an awkward pause.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Don't blame me, Jeeves,' I said. 'It isn't my fault.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'No, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Well, that's that.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 'Yes, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 I could see the man was brooding tensely.\cf0\par
\par
\cf1\expndtw1 I've found, as a general rule in life, that the things you think are \expndtw0 going to be the scaliest nearly always turn out not so bad after all; \expndtw-2 but it wasn't that way with Bingo's tea-party. From the moment he invited himself I felt that the thing was going to be blue round the \expndtw-3 edges, and it was. And I think the most gruesome part of the whole affair was the fact that, for the first time since I'd known him, I saw \expndtw-2 Jeeves come very near to being rattled. I suppose there's a chink in \expndtw-3 everyone's armour, and young Bingo found Jeeves's right at the drop of the flag when he breezed in with six inches or so of brown beard \expndtw1 hanging on to his chin. I had forgotten to warn Jeeves about the \expndtw0 beard, and it came on him absolutely out of a blue sky. I saw the \expndtw2 man's jaw drop, and he clutched at the table for support. I don't \expndtw1 blame him, mind you. Few people have ever looked fouler than \expndtw-3 young Bingo in the fungus. Jeeves paled a little; then the weakness passed and he was himself again. But I could see that he had been \expndtw-5 shaken.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 Young Bingo was too busy introducing the mob to take much \expndtw-1 notice. They were a very C3 collection. Comrade Butt looked like one of the tilings that come out of dead trees after the rain; moth-\expndtw-3 eaten was the word I should have used to describe old Rowbotham; \expndtw2 and as for Charlotte, she seemed to take me straight into another \expndtw-2 and a dreadful world. It wasn't that she was exactly bad-looking. In \expndtw-5 fact, if she had knocked off starchy foods and done Swedish exercises \expndtw1 for a bit, she might have been quite tolerable. But there was too \expndtw-2 much of her. Billowy curves. Well-nourished, perhaps, expresses it \expndtw-1 best. And, while she may have had a heart of gold, the thing you \expndtw-3 noticed about her first was that she had a tooth of gold. I know that \expndtw-4 young Bingo, when in form, could fall in love with practically any\expndtw2 thing of the other sex; but this time I couldn't see any excuse for \expndtw-1 him at all.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'My friend, Mr Wooster,' said Bingo, completing the ceremonial.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw8 Old Rowbotham looked at me and then he looked round the \expndtw2 room, and I could see he wasn't particularly braced. There's nothing of absolutely Oriental luxury about the old flat, but I have managed \expndtw1 to make myself fairly comfortable, and I suppose the surroundings \expndtw4 jarred him a bit.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw8 'Mr Wooster?' said old Rowbotham. 'May I say Comrade \expndtw-2 Wooster?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'I beg your pardon?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Are you of the movement?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw36 'Well-er-'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Do you yearn for the Revolution?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Well, I don't know that I exactly yearn. I mean to say, as far as \expndtw-2 I can make out, the whole hub of the scheme seems to be to massacre \expndtw1 coves like me; and I don't mind owning I'm not frightfully keen on \expndtw4 the idea.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'But I'm talking him round,' said Bingo. 'I'm wrestling with him. \expndtw4 A few more treatments ought to do the trick.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 Old Rowbotham looked at me a bit doubtfully.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Comrade Little has great eloquence,' he admitted.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'I think he talks something wonderful,' said the girl, and young \expndtw3 Bingo shot a glance of such succulent devotion at her that I reeled in my tracks. It seemed to depress Comrade Butt a good deal too. \expndtw2 He scowled at the carpet and said something about dancing on \expndtw-4 volcanoes.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Tea is served, sir,' said Jeeves.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Tea, Pa!' said Charlotte, starting at the word like the old war-horse who hears the bugle; and we got down to it.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 Funny how one changes as the years roll on. At school, I remem\expndtw-1 ber, I would cheerfully have sold my soul for scrambled eggs and \expndtw0 sardines at five in the afternoon; but somehow, since reaching man's \expndtw7 estate, I had rather dropped out of the habit; and I'm bound to \expndtw0 admit I was appalled to a goodish extent at the way the sons and \expndtw3 daughter of the Revolution shoved their heads down and went for the foodstuffs. Even Comrade Butt cast off his gloom for a space and immersed his whole being in scrambled eggs, only coming to \expndtw1 the surface at intervals to grab another cup of tea. Presently the hot \expndtw3 water gave out, and I turned to Jeeves.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'More hot water.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Very good, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Hev! What's this? What's this?' Old Rowbotham had lowered his\cf0\expndtw0  \cf1\expndtw3 cup and was eyeing us sternly. He tapped Jeeves on the shoulder. \expndtw0 'No servility, my lad; no servility!'\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'I beg your pardon, sir?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Don't call me "sir." Call me Comrade. Do you know what you \expndtw1 are, my lad? You're an absolute relic of an exploded feudal system.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Very good, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'If there's one thing that makes my blood boil in my veins -'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'Have another sardine,' chipped in young Bingo - the first sensible \expndtw1 thing he'd done since I had known him. Old Rowbotham took three \expndtw0 and dropped the subject, and Jeeves drifted away. I could see by the \expndtw2 look of his back what he felt.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 At last, just as I was beginning to feel that it was going on for \expndtw0 ever, the thing finished. I woke up to find the party getting ready to \expndtw-6 leave.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 Sardines and about three quarters of tea had mellowed old Row\expndtw3 botham. There was quite a genial look in his eye as he shook my \expndtw0 hand.\cf0\par
\cf1 'I must thank you for your hospitality, Comrade Wooster,' he said.\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw7 'Oh, not at all! Only too glad -'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 'Hospitality?' snorted the man Butt, going off in my ear like a \expndtw0 depth-charge. He was scowling in a morose sort of manner at young Bingo and the girl, who were giggling together by the window. 'I \expndtw1 wonder the food didn't turn to ashes in our mouths! Eggs! Muffins! \expndtw2 Sardines! All wrung from the bleeding lips of the starving poor!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Oh, I say! What a beastly idea!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'I will send you some literature on the subject of the Cause,' said old Rowbotham. 'And soon, I hope, we shall see you at one of our little meetings.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 Jeeves came in to clear away, and found me sitting among the \expndtw2 ruins. It was all very well for Comrade Butt to knock the food, but he had pretty well finished the ham; and if you had shoved the remainder of the jam into the bleeding lips of the starving poor it \expndtw1 would hardly have made them sticky.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Well, Jeeves,' I said, 'how about it?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'I would prefer to express no opinion, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Jeeves, Mr Little is in love with that female.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'So I gathered, sir. She was slapping him in the passage.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 I clutched my brow.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Slapping him?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Yes, sir. Roguishly.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Great Scott! I didn't know it had got as far as that. How did \expndtw2 Comrade Butt seem to be taking it? Or perhaps he didn't see?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-2 'Yes, sir, he observed the entire proceedings. He struck me as \expndtw-3 extremely jealous.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'I don't blame him. Jeeves, what are we to do?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'I could not say, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'It's a bit thick.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'Very much so, sir.'\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 And that was all the consolation I got from Jeeves.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\par
\cf1\expndtw-25\ul\b 12\expndtw0\par
\expndtw-2 Bingo has a Bad Goodwood\cf0\expndtw0\ulnone\b0\par
\par
\cf1\expndtw3 I had promised to meet young Bingo next day, to tell him what I \expndtw2 thought of his infernal Charlotte, and I was mooching slowly up St \expndtw5 James's Street, trying to think how the dickens I could explain to \expndtw2 him, without hurting his feelings, that I considered her one of the world's foulest, when who should come toddling out of the Devonshire Club but old Bittlesham and Bingo himself. I hurried on and \expndtw1 overtook them.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'What ho!' I said.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 The result of this simple greeting was a bit of a shock. Old \expndtw1 Bittlesham quivered from head to foot like a poleaxed blancmange. \expndtw5 His eyes were popping and his face had gone sort of greenish.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Mr Wooster!' He seemed to recover somewhat, as if I wasn't the \expndtw0 worst thing that could have happened to him. 'You gave me a severe \expndtw4 start.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'Oh, sorry.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'My uncle,' said young Bingo in a hushed, bedside sort of voice, \expndtw6 'isn't feeling quite himself this morning. He's had a threatening \expndtw4 letter.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'I go in fear of my life,' said old Bittlesham.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Threatening letter?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw9 'Written,' said old Bittlesham, 'in an uneducated hand and \expndtw2 couched in terms of uncompromising menaces. Mr Wooster, do you \expndtw1 recall a sinister, bearded man who assailed me in no measured terms \expndtw4 in Hyde Park last Sunday?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 I jumped, and shot a look at young Bingo. The only expression \expndtw3 on his face was one of grave, kindly concern.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw8 'Why - ah - yes,' I said. 'Bearded man. Chap with a beard.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Could you identify him, if necessary?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw8 'Well, I - er - how do you mean?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'The fact is, Bertie,' said Bingo, 'we think this man with the beard \expndtw4 is at the bottom of all this business. I happened to be walking late \expndtw3 last night through Pounceby Gardens, where Uncle Mortimer lives,\cf0\expndtw0  \cf1\expndtw1 and as I was passing the house a fellow came hurrying down the \expndtw-4 steps in a furtive sort of way. Probably he had just been shoving the \expndtw3 letter in at the front door. I noticed that he had a beard. I didn't \expndtw0 think any more of it, however, until this morning, when Uncle Mortimer showed me the letter he had received and told me about \expndtw2 the chap in the park. I'm going to make inquiries.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'The police should be informed,' said Lord Bittlesham.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-4 'No,' said young Bingo firmly, 'not at this stage of the proceedings. \expndtw2 It would hamper me. Don't you worry, Uncle; I think I can track \expndtw-4 this fellow down. You leave it all to me. I'll pop you into a taxi now, \expndtw1 and go and talk it over with Bertie.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'You're a good boy, Richard,' said old Bittlesham, and we put \expndtw1 him in a passing cab and pushed off. I turned and looked young \expndtw-2 Bingo squarely in the eyeball.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Did you send that letter?' I said.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-2 'Rather! You ought to have seen it, Bertie! One of the best gent's \expndtw0 ordinary threatening letters I ever wrote.'\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'But where's the sense of it?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Bertie, my lad,' said Bingo, taking me earnestly by the coat-\expndtw-1 sleeve, 'I had an excellent reason. Posterity may say of me what it will, but one thing it can never say - that I have not a good solid business head. Look here!' He waved a bit of paper in front of my \expndtw-10 eyes.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Great Scott!' It was a cheque - an absolute, dashed cheque for \expndtw-2 fifty of the best, signed Bittlesham, and made out to the order of R. \expndtw-3 Little.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'What's that for?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-3 'Expenses,' said Bingo, pouching it. 'You don't suppose an investigation like this can be carried on for nothing, do you! I now proceed \expndtw4 to the bank and startle them into a fit with it. Later I edge round \expndtw0 to my bookie and put the entire sum on Ocean Breeze. What you want in situations of this kind, Bertie, is tact. If I had gone to my \expndtw-4 uncle and asked him for fifty quid, would I have got it? No! But by \expndtw0 exercising tact - Oh! by the way, what do you think of Charlotte?'\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw34 'Well-er-'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-3 Young Bingo massaged my sleeve affectionately.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'I know, old man, I know. Don't try to find words. She bowled \expndtw0 you over, eh? Left you speechless, what? / know! That's the effect \expndtw-3 she has on everybody. Well, I leave you here, laddie. Oh, before we \expndtw-1 part - Butt! What of Butt? Nature's worst blunder, don't you think?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'I must say I've seen cheerier souls.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'I think I've got him licked, Bertie. Charlotte is coming to the \expndtw1 Zoo with me this afternoon. Alone. And later on to the pictures. \expndtw0 That looks like the beginning of the end, what? Well, toodle-oo, \expndtw-3 friend of my youth. If you've nothing better to do this morning, you might take a stroll along Bond Street and be picking out a wedding \expndtw1 present.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 I lost sight of Bingo after that. I left messages a couple of times \expndtw4 at the club, asking him to ring me up, but they didn't have any \expndtw2 effect. I took it that he was too busy to respond. The Sons of the \expndtw-3 Red Dawn also passed out of my life, though Jeeves told me he had \expndtw-2 met Comrade Butt one evening and had a brief chat with him. He \expndtw2 reported Butt as gloomier than ever. In the competition for the \expndtw-4 bulging Charlotte, Butt had apparently gone right back in the betting.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-2 'Mr Little would appear to have eclipsed him entirely, sir,' said \expndtw-4 Jeeves.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 'Bad news, Jeeves; bad news.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'Yes, sir.'\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw-3 'I suppose what it amounts to, Jeeves, is that, when young Bingo \expndtw0 really takes his coat off and starts in, there is no power of God or \expndtw1 man that can prevent him making a chump of himself.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'It would seem so, sir,' said Jeeves.\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 Then Goodwood came along, and I dug out the best suit and \expndtw-2 popped down.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 I never know, when I'm telling a story, whether to cut the thing \expndtw-2 down to plain facts or whether to drool on and shove in a lot of atmosphere, and all that. I mean, many a cove would no doubt edge \expndtw-1 into the final spasm of this narrative with a long description of \expndtw-3 Goodwood, featuring the blue sky, the rolling prospect, the joyous \expndtw-2 crowds of pickpockets, and the parties of the second part who were \expndtw3 having the pockets picked, and - in a word, what not. But better \expndtw-2 give it a miss, I think. Even if I wanted to go into details about the \expndtw2 bally meeting I don't think I'd have the heart to. The thing's too \expndtw-3 recent. The anguish hasn't had time to pass. You see, what happened was that Ocean Breeze (curse him!) finished absolutely nowhere for \expndtw0 the Cup. Believe me, nowhere.\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 These are the times that try men's souls. It's never pleasant to be \expndtw-2 caught in the machinery when a favourite comes unstitched, and in \expndtw0 the case of this particular dashed animal, one had come to look on \expndtw1 the running of the race as a pure formality, a sort of quaint, old-\expndtw-2 world ceremony to be gone through before one sauntered up to the \expndtw0 bookie and collected. I had wandered out of the paddock to try and\cf0  \cf1\expndtw2 forget, when I bumped into old Bittlesham: and he looked so rattled \expndtw3 and purple, and his eyes were standing out of his head at such an \expndtw5 angle, that I simply pushed my hand out and shook his in silence.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'Me, too,' I said. 'Me, too. How much did \i you \i0 drop?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Drop?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw7 'On Ocean Breeze.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw7 'I did not bet on Ocean Breeze.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'What! You owned, the favourite for the Cup, and didn't back it!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'I never bet on horse-racing. It is against my principles. I am told \expndtw4 that the animal failed to win the contest.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Failed to win! Why, he was so far behind that he nearly came in \expndtw4 first in the next race.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Tut!' said old Bittlesham.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'Tut is right,' I agreed. Then the rumminess of the thing struck \expndtw3 me. 'But if you haven't dropped a parcel over the race,' I said, 'why \expndtw2 are you looking so rattled?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'That fellow is here!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'What fellow?'\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw8 'That bearded man.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 It will show you to what an extent the iron had entered into my \expndtw1 soul when I say that this was the first time I had given a thought to \expndtw2 young Bingo. I suddenly remembered now that he had told me he \expndtw4 would be at Goodwood.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'He is making an inflammatory speech at this very moment, \expndtw2 specifically directed at me. Come! Where that crowd is.' He lugged \expndtw1 me along and, by using his weight scientifically, got us into the front \expndtw4 rank. 'Look! Listen!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\par
\cf1\expndtw3 Young Bingo was certainly tearing off some ripe stuff. Inspired by \expndtw2 the agony of having put his little all on a stumer that hadn't finished \expndtw1 in the first six, he was fairly letting himself go on the subject of the blackness of the hearts of plutocratic owners who allowed a trusting \expndtw5 public to imagine a horse was the real goods when it couldn't trot \expndtw4 the length of its stable without getting its legs crossed and sitting \expndtw6 down to rest. He then went on to draw what I'm bound to say was \expndtw2 a most moving picture of a working man's home, due to this dishonesty. He showed us the working man, all optimism and simple \expndtw7 trust, believing every word he read in the papers about Ocean \expndtw3 Breeze's form; depriving his wife and children of food in order to \expndtw2 back the brute; going without beer so as to be able to cram an extra \expndtw6 bob on; robbing the baby's money-box with a hatpin on the eve of\cf0\expndtw0  \cf1\expndtw-3 the race; and finally getting let down with a thud. Dashed impressive \expndtw-2 it was. I could see old Rowbotham nodding his head gently, while \expndtw-1 poor old Butt glowered at the speaker with ill-concealed jealousy. \expndtw2 The audience ate it.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'But what does Lord Bittlesham care,' shouted Bingo, 'if the poor \expndtw1 working man loses his hard-earned savings? I tell you, friends and \expndtw0 comrades, you may talk, and you may argue and you may cheer, and \expndtw1 you may pass resolutions, but what you need is Action! Action! The \expndtw2 world won't be a fit place for honest men to live in till the blood of Lord Bittlesham and his kind flows down the gutters of Park Lane!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 Roars of approval from the populace, most of whom, I suppose, \expndtw5 had had their little bit on blighted Ocean Breeze, and were feeling \expndtw4 it deeply. Old Bittlesham bounded over to a large, sad policeman who was watching the proceedings, and appeared to be urging him \expndtw2 to rally round. The policeman pulled at his moustache, and smiled \expndtw3 gently, but that was as far as he seemed inclined to go; and old Bittlesham came back to me, puffing not a little.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'It's monstrous! The man definitely threatens my personal safety, and that policeman declines to interfere. Said it was just talk! Talk! \expndtw4 It's monstrous!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'Absolutely,' I said, but I can't say it seemed to cheer him up \expndtw1 much.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 Comrade Butt had taken the centre of the stage now. He had a \expndtw3 voice like the Last Trump, and you could hear every word he said, \expndtw4 but somehow he didn't seem to be clicking. I suppose the fact was \expndtw7 he was too impersonal, if that's the word I want. After Bingo's \expndtw3 speech the audience was in the mood for something a good deal \expndtw2 snappier than just general remarks abut the Cause. They had started \expndtw4 to heckle the poor blighter pretty freely, when he stopped in the \expndtw0 middle of a sentence, and I saw that he was staring at old Bittlesham.\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw7 The crowd thought he had dried up.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Suck a lozenge,' shouted someone.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 Comrade Butt pulled himself together with a jerk, and even from \expndtw5 where I stood I could see the nasty gleam in his eye.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'Ah,' he yelled, 'you may mock, comrades; you may jeer and sneer; \expndtw-1 and you may scoff; but let me tell you that the movement is spreading \expndtw2 every day and every hour. Yes, even amongst the so-called upper \expndtw1 classes it's spreading. Perhaps you'll believe me when I tell you that here, today, on this very spot, we have in our little band one of our \expndtw6 most earnest workers, the nephew of that very Lord Bittlesham \expndtw5 whose name you were hooting but a moment ago.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 And before old Bingo had a notion of what was up, he had reached \expndtw7 out a hand and grabbed the beard. It came off all in once piece, \expndtw2 and, well as Bingo's speech had gone, it was simply nothing com\expndtw0 pared with the hit made by this bit of business. I heard old Bittlesham \expndtw2 give one short, sharp snort of amazement at my side, and then any \expndtw4 remarks he may have made were drowned in thunders of applause.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 I'm bound to say that in this crisis young Bingo acted with a good \expndtw4 deal of decision and character. To grab Comrade Butt by the neck \expndtw5 and try to twist his head off was with him the work of a moment. \expndtw4 But before he could get any results the sad policeman, brightening \expndtw3 up like magic, had charged in, and the next minute he was shoving \expndtw1 his way back through the crowd, with Bingo in his right hand and \expndtw5 Comrade Butt in his left.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Let me pass, sir, please,' he said, civilly, as he came up against \expndtw1 old Bittlesham, who was blocking the gangway.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Eh?' said old Bittlesham, still dazed.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 At the sound of his voice young Bingo looked up quickly from \expndtw6 under the shadow of the policeman's right hand, and as he did so \expndtw4 all the stuffing seemed to go out of him with a rush. For an instant \expndtw3 he drooped like a bally lily, and then shuffled brokenly on. His air \expndtw5 was the air of a man who has got it in the neck properly.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw7 Sometimes when Jeeves has brought in my morning tea and \expndtw6 shoved it on the table beside my bed, he drifts silently from the \expndtw3 room and leaves me to go to it: at other times he sort of shimmies \expndtw5 respectfully in the middle of the carpet, and then I know that he \expndtw0 wants a word or two. On the day after I had got back from Goodwood \expndtw5 I was lying on my back, staring at the ceiling, when I noticed that \expndtw2 he was still in my midst.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Oh, hallo,' I said. 'Yes?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Mr Little called earlier in the morning, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Oh, by Jove, what? Did he tell you about what happened?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Yes, sir. It was in connection with that that he wished to see you. \expndtw2 He proposes to retire to the country and remain there for some little \expndtw0 while.'\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Dashed sensible.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'That was my opinion, also, sir. There was, however, a slight \expndtw2 financial difficulty to be overcome. I took the liberty of advancing \expndtw7 him ten pounds on your behalf to meet current expenses. I trust \expndtw3 that meets with your approval, sir?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'Oh, of course. Take a tenner off the dressing-table.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Very good, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Jeeves,' I said.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Sir?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'What beats me is how the dickens the thing happened. I mean, how did the chappie Butt ever get to know who he was?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 Jeeves coughed.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'There, sir, I fear I may have been somewhat to blame.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'You? How?'\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'I fear 1 may carelessly have disclosed Mr Little's identity to Mr \expndtw5 Butt on the occasion when I had that conversation with him.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 I sat up.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'What?'\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Indeed, now that I recall the incident, sir, I distinctly remember saying that Mr Little's work for the Cause really seemed to me to \expndtw0 deserve something in the nature of public recognition. I greatly regret \expndtw2 having been the means of bringing about a temporary estrangement between Mr Little and his lordship. And I am afraid there is another aspect to the matter. I am also responsible for the breaking off of \expndtw5 relations between Mr Little and the young lady who came to tea \expndtw6 here.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw7 I sat up again. It's a rummy thing, but the silver lining had \expndtw3 absolutely escaped my notice till then.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Do you mean to say it's off?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'Completely, sir. I gathered from Mr Little's remarks that his \expndtw0 hopes in that direction may now be looked on as definitely quenched. \expndtw4 If there were no other obstacle, the young lady's father, I am in\expndtw5 formed by Mr Little, now regards him as a spy and a deceiver.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'Well, I'm dashed.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'I appear inadvertently to have caused much trouble, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Jeeves!' I said.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Sir?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'How much money is there on the dressing-table?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'In addition to the ten-pound note which you instructed me to \expndtw3 take, sir, there are two five-pound notes, three one-pounds, a ten \expndtw0 shillings, two half-crowns, a florin, four shillings, a sixpence, and a \expndtw3 halfpenny, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Collar it all,' I said. 'You've earned it.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\par
\cf1\expndtw-53\ul\b 13\expndtw0\par
\expndtw2 The Great Sermon Handicap\cf0\expndtw0\ulnone\b0\par
\par
\cf1\expndtw2 After Goodwood's over, I generally find that I get a bit restless. I'm \expndtw6 not much of a lad for the birds and the trees and the great open spaces as a rule, but there's no doubt that London's not at its best \expndtw5 in August, and rather tends to give me the pip and make me think \expndtw1 of popping down into the country till things have bucked up a trifle. \expndtw5 London, about a couple of weeks after that spectacular finish of \expndtw0 young Bingo's which I've just been telling you about, was empty and \expndtw4 smelled of burning asphalt. All my pals were away, most of the theatres were shut, and they were taking up Piccadilly in large \expndtw0 spadefuls.\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 It was most infernally hot. As I sat in the old flat one night trying \expndtw4 to muster up energy enough to go to bed, I felt I couldn't stand it much longer: and when Jeeves came in with the tissue-restorers on \expndtw5 a tray I put the thing to him squarely.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Jeeves,' I said, wiping the brow and gasping like a stranded \expndtw3 goldfish, 'it's beastly hot.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'The weather \i is \i0 oppressive, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Not all the soda, Jeeves.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'No, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'I think we've had about enough of the metrop. for the time being, \expndtw4 and require a change. Shift-ho, I think, Jeeves, what?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Just as you say, sir. There is a letter on the tray, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'By Jove, Jeeves, that was practically poetry. Rhymed, did you \expndtw5 notice?' I opened the letter. 'I say, this is rather extraordinary.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Sir?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'You know Twing Hall?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Yes, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'Well, Mr Little is there.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Indeed, sir?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Absolutely in the flesh. He's had to take another of those tutoring \expndtw0 jobs.'\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 After that fearful mix-up at Goodwood, when young Bingo Little,\cf0\expndtw0  \cf1\expndtw2 a broken man, had touched me for a tenner and whizzed silently off \expndtw7 into the unknown, I had been all over the place, asking mutual \expndtw3 friends if they had heard anything of him, but nobody had. And all \expndtw4 the time he had been at Twing Hall. Rummy. And I'll tell you why \expndtw1 it was rummy. Twing Hall belongs to old Lord Wickhammersley, a \expndtw2 great pal of my guv'nor's when he was alive, and I have a standing \expndtw4 invitation to pop down there when I like. I generally put in a week \expndtw2 or two some time in the summer, and I was thinking of going there \expndtw6 before I read the letter.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'And what's more, Jeeves, my cousin Claude, and my cousin \expndtw6 Eustace - you remember them?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 'Very vividly, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Well, they're down there, too, reading for some exam or other \expndtw6 with the vicar. I used to read with him myself at one time. He's \expndtw1 known far and wide as a pretty hot coach for those of fairly feeble \expndtw5 intellect. Well, when I tell you he got \i me \i0 through Smalls, you'll gather that he's a bit of a hummer. I call this most extraordinary.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 I read the letter again. It was from Eustace. Claude and Eustace \expndtw7 are twins, and more or less generally admitted to be the curse of \expndtw5 the human race.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi360\li720\ri2880\sb29\qr\cf1\expndtw-7\i The Vicarage,\cf0\expndtw0\i0\par
\cf1\expndtw-5\i Twing, Glos. \par
\pard\cbpat2\fi360\li720\ri2880\sb29\expndtw-1 Dear Bertie,\cf0\expndtw0\i0\par
\cf1\expndtw3\i Do you want to make a bit of money? I hear you had a bad \expndtw-4 Goodwood, so you probably do. Well, come down here quick and get \expndtw-3 in on the biggest sporting event of the season. I'll explain when I see \expndtw2 you, but you can take it from me it's all right.\cf0\expndtw0\i0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1\i Claude and I are with a reading-party at old Heppenstall's. There \expndtw2 are nine of us, not counting your pal Bingo Little, who is tutoring \expndtw3 the kid up at the Hall.\cf0\expndtw0\i0\par
\cf1\expndtw-3\i Don't miss this golden opportunity, which may never occur again. \expndtw-1 Come and join us.\cf0\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi360\li720\ri2880\sb29\qc\cf1\expndtw-13\i Yours,\cf0\expndtw0\i0\par
\cf1\expndtw-6\scaps EUSTACE.\cf0\expndtw0\scaps0\par
\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi360\ri-1800\sb29\cf1\expndtw4 I handed this to Jeeves. He studied it thoughtfully. \expndtw3 'What do you make of it? A rummy communication, what?' \par
'\expndtw11 Very high-spirited young gentlemen, sir, Mr Claude and Mr \expndtw5 Eustace. Up to some game, I should be disposed to imagine.' \par
'\expndtw3 Yes. But what game, do you think?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'It is impossible to say, sir. Did you observe that the letter con\expndtw7 tinues over the page?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw7 'Eh, what?' I grabbed the thing. This was what was on the other side of the last page:\cf0\expndtw0\par
\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi360\ri-1800\sb29\qc\cf1\expndtw3 SERMON HANDICAP\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 RUNNERS AND BETTING\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 PROBABLE STARTERS\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-2 Rev. Joseph Tucker (Badgwick), scratch. \par
\expndtw-1 Rev. Leonard Starkie (Stapleton), scratch. \par
\expndtw-2 Rev. Alexander Jones (Upper Bingley), receives three minutes. \par
Rev. W. Dix (Litde Clickton-on-the-Wold), receives five minutes. \par
\expndtw-1 Rev. Francis Heppenstall (Twing), receives eight minutes. \par
Rev. Cuthbert Dibble (Boustead Parva), receives nine minutes. \par
Rev. Orlo Hough (Boustead Magna), receives nine minutes. \par
Rev. J. J. Roberts (Fale-by-the-Water), receives ten minutes. \par
\expndtw-3 Rev. G. Hayward (Lower Bingley), receives twelve minutes. \par
\expndtw-1 Rev. James Bates (Gandle-by-the-Hill), receives fifteen minutes. \par
\expndtw4\i (The above have arrived.)\par
\par
\expndtw1\i0 Prices: 5-2, Tucker, Starkie; 3-1, Jones; 9-2, \par
Dix; 6-1, Heppenstall, Dibble, Hough; 100-8 any other.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi360\ri-1800\sb29\cf1\expndtw-2 It baffled me.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'Do you understand it, Jeeves?'\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'No, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 'Well, I think we ought to have a look into it, anyway, what?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'Undoubtedly, sir.'\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 'Right-o, then. Pack our spare dickey and a toothbrush \i in \i0 a neat brown-paper parcel, send a wire to Lord Wickhammersley to say \expndtw-2 we're coming, and buy two tickets on the five-ten at Paddington \expndtw-3 tomorrow.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 The five-ten was late as usual, and everybody was dressing for \expndtw-1 dinner when I arrived at the Hall. It was only by getting into my \expndtw0 evening things in record time and taking the stairs to the dining-room in a couple of bounds that I managed to dead-heat with the \expndtw1 soup. I slid into the vacant chair, and found that I was sitting next \expndtw-1 to old Wickhammersley's youngest daughter, Cynthia.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Oh, hallo, old thing,' I said.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 Great pals we've always been. In fact, there was a time when I \expndtw2 had an idea I was in love with Cynthia. However, it blew over. A\cf0\expndtw0  \cf1\expndtw1 dashed pretty and lively and attractive girl, mind you, but full of \expndtw0 ideals and all that. I may be wronging her, but I have an idea that \expndtw-1 she's the sort of girl who would want a fellow to carve out a career and what not. I know I've heard her speak favourably of Napoleon. \expndtw2 So what with one thing and another the jolly old frenzy sort of \expndtw-1 petered out, and now we're just pals. I think she's a topper, and she \expndtw0 thinks me next door to a loony, so everything's nice and matey.\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 'Well, Bertie, so you've arrived?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-4 'Oh, yes, I've arrived. Yes, here I am. I say, I seem to have plunged \expndtw0 into the middle of quite a young dinner-party. Who are all these \expndtw-9 coves?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-4 'Oh, just people from round about. You know most of them. You \expndtw3 remember Colonel Willis, and the Spencers -'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 'Of course, yes. And there's old Heppenstall. Who's the other \expndtw0 clergyman next to Mrs Spencer?'\cf0\par
\cf1 'Mr Hayward, from Lower Bingley.'\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw-2 'What an amazing lot of clergymen there are round here. Why, \expndtw1 there's another, next to Mrs Willis.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'That's Mr Bates, Mr Heppenstall's nephew. He's an assistant-\expndtw-1 master at Eton. He's down here during the summer holidays, acting \expndtw3 as locum tenens for Mr Spettigue, the rector of Gandle-by-the-\expndtw0 Hill.'\cf0\par
\cf1 'I thought I knew his face. He was in his fourth year at Oxford \expndtw-1 when I was a fresher. Rather a blood. Got his rowing-blue and all \expndtw-2 that.' I took another look round the table, and spotted young Bingo. \expndtw4 'Ah, there he is,' I said. 'There's the old egg.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'There's who?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Young Bingo Little. Great pal of mine. He's tutoring your \expndtw0 brother, you know.'\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Good gracious! Is he a friend of yours?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'Rather! Known him all my life.'\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Then tell me, Bertie, is he at all weak in the head?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Weak in the head?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'I don't mean simply because he's a friend of yours. But he's so \expndtw1 strange in his manner.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'How do you mean?'\cf0\par
\cf1 'Well, he keeps looking at me so oddly.'\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 'Oddly? How? Give me an imitation.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'I can't in front of all these people.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Yes, you can. I'll hold my napkin up.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'All right, then. Quick. There!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 Considering that she had only about a second and a half to do it \expndtw2 in, I must say it was a jolly fine exhibition. She opened her mouth \expndtw4 and eyes pretty wide and let her jaw drop sideways, and managed \expndtw0 to look so like a dyspeptic calf that I recognized the symptoms \expndtw-4 immediately.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Oh, that's all right,' I said. 'No need to be alarmed. He's simply \expndtw0 in love with you.'\par
'\expndtw5 In love with me. Don't be absurd.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'My dear old thing, you don't know young Bingo. He can fall in \expndtw1 love with \i anybody.'\cf0\expndtw0\i0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Thank you!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Oh, I didn't mean it that way, you know. I don't wonder at his \expndtw1 taking to you. Why, I was in love with you myself once.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Once? Ah! And all that remains now are the cold ashes? This \expndtw3 isn't one of your tactful evenings, Bertie.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'Well, my dear sweet thing, dash it all, considering that you gave me the bird and nearly laughed yourself into a permanent state of \expndtw6 hiccoughs when I asked you -'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'Oh, I'm not reproaching you. No doubt there were faults on both \expndtw2 sides. He's very good-looking, isn't he?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-3 'Good-looking? Bingo? Bingo good-looking? No, I say, come now, really!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'I mean, compared with some people,' said Cynthia.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 Some time after this, Lady Wickhammersley gave the signal for \expndtw0 the females of the species to leg it, and they duly stampeded. I didn't get a chance of talking to young Bingo when they'd gone, and later, \expndtw2 in the drawing-room, he didn't show up. I found him eventually in \expndtw-2 his room, lying on the bed with his feet on the rail, smoking a toofah. \expndtw4 There was a notebook on the counterpane beside him.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Hallo, old scream,' I said.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'Hallo, Bertie,' he replied, in what seemed to me rather a moody, \expndtw2 distrait sort of manner.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 'Rummy finding you down here. I take it your uncle cut off your \expndtw4 allowance after that Goodwood binge and you had to take this \expndtw3 tutoring job to keep the wolf from the door?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Correct,' said young Bingo tersely.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Well, you might have let your pals know where you were.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 He frowned darkly.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'I didn't want them to know where I was. I wanted to creep away \expndtw3 and hide myself. I've been through a bad time, Bertie, these last \expndtw7 weeks. The sun ceased to shine -'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'That's curious. We've had gorgeous weather in London.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw8 'The birds ceased to sing -'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'What birds?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 'What the devil does it matter what birds?' said young Bingo, with \expndtw1 some asperity. 'Any birds. The birds round about here. You don't expect me to specify them by their pet names, do you? I tell you, \expndtw3 Bertie, it hit me hard at first, very hard.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'What hit you?' I simply couldn't follow the blighter.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Charlotte's calculated callousness.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'Oh, ah!' I've seen poor old Bingo through so many unsuccessful love-affairs that I'd almost forgotten there was a girl mixed up with that Goodwood business. Of course! Charlotte Corday Rowbotham. \expndtw1 And she had given him the raspberry, I remembered, and gone off \expndtw3 with Comrade Butt.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'I went through torments. Recently, however, I've - er - bucked \expndtw3 up a bit. Tell me, Bertie, what are you doing down here? I didn't \expndtw1 know you knew these people.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Me? Why, I've known them since I was a kid.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 Young Bingo put his feet down with a thud.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Do you mean to say you've known Lady Cynthia all that time?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Rather! She can't have been seven when I met her first.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'Good Lord!' said young Bingo. He looked at me for the first \expndtw0 time as though I amounted to something, and swallowed a mouthful of smoke the wrong way. 'I love that girl, Bertie,' he went on, when \expndtw2 he'd finished coughing.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Yes. Nice girl, of course.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 He eyed me with pretty deep loathing.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Don't speak of her in that horrible casual way. She's an angel. \expndtw3 An angel! Was she talking about me at all at dinner, Bertie?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Oh, yes.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'What did she say?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'I remember one thing. She said she thought you good-looking.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 Young Bingo closed his eyes in a sort of ecstasy. Then he picked \expndtw2 up the notebook.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Pop off now, old man, there's a good chap,' he said in a hushed, \expndtw2 far-away voice. 'I've got a bit of writing to do.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 'Writing?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 'Poetry, if you must know. I wish the dickens,' said young Bingo, \expndtw2 not without some bitterness, 'she had been christened something \expndtw4 except Cynthia. There isn't a dam' word in the language it rhymes\cf0\expndtw0  \cf1 with. Ye gods, how I could have spread myself if she had only been \expndtw2 called Jane!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\par
\cf1 Bright and early next morning, as I lay in bed blinking at the sunlight \expndtw1 on the dressing-table and wondering when Jeeves was going to show up with a cup of tea, a heavy weight descended on my toes, and the \expndtw2 voice of young Bingo polluted the air. The blighter had apparently \expndtw3 risen with the lark.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Leave me,' I said, 'I would be alone. I can't see anybody till I've \expndtw5 had my tea.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'When Cynthia smiles,' said young Bingo, 'the skies are blue; the \expndtw4 world takes on a roseate hue; birds in the garden trill and sing, and \expndtw1 Joy is king of everything, when Cynthia smiles.' He coughed, chang\expndtw7 ing gears. 'When Cynthia frowns -'\par
'\expndtw3 What the devil are you talking about?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'I'm reading you my poem. The one I wrote to Cynthia last night. \expndtw4 I'll go on, shall I?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'No!' \expndtw0 .   'No?'\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'No. I haven't had my tea.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 At this moment Jeeves came in with the good old beverage, and I sprang on it with a glad cry. After a couple of sips things looked \expndtw2 a bit brighter. Even young Bingo didn't offend the eye to quite such \expndtw6 an extent. By the time I'd finished the first cup I was a new man, \expndtw5 so much so that I not only permitted but encouraged the poor fish \expndtw1 to read the rest of the bally thing, and even went so far as to criticize \expndtw7 the scansion of the fourth line of the fifth verse. We were still \expndtw3 arguing the point when the door burst open and in blew Claude and \expndtw2 Eustace. One of the things which discourages me about rural life is \expndtw1 the frightful earliness with which events begin to break loose. I've stayed at places in the country where they've jerked me out of the \expndtw2 dreamless at about six-thirty to go for a jolly swim in the lake. At \expndtw1 Twing, thank heaven, they know me, and let me breakfast in bed. \expndtw3 The twins seemed pleased to see me. \expndtw5 'Good old Bertie!' said Claude.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Stout fellow!' said Eustace. 'The Rev. told us you had arrived. I thought that letter of mine would fetch you.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw7 'You can always bank on Bertie,' said Claude. 'A sportsman to \expndtw4 the finger-tips. Well, has Bingo told you about it?'\par
'\expndtw9 Not a word. He's been - '\par
'\expndtw4 We've been talking,' said Bingo hastily, 'of other matters.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw9 Claude pinched the last slice of thin bread-and-butter, and \expndtw5 Eustace poured himself out a cup of tea.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'It's like this, Bertie,' said Eustace, settling down cosily. 'As I told \expndtw2 you in my letter, there are nine of us marooned in this desert spot, \expndtw1 reading with old Heppenstall. Well, of course, nothing is jollier than \expndtw2 sweating up the Classics when it's a hundred in the shade, but there \expndtw1 does come a time when you begin to feel the need of a little relaxation; and, by Jove, there are absolutely no facilities for relaxation in this place whatever. And then Steggles got this idea. Steggles is one \expndtw3 of our reading-party, and, between ourselves, rather a worm as a \expndtw1 general thing. Still, you have to give him credit for getting this idea.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'What idea?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Well, you know how many parsons there are round about here. \expndtw4 There are about a dozen hamlets within a radius of six miles, and \expndtw3 each hamlet has a church and each church has a parson and each \expndtw2 parson preaches a sermon every Sunday. Tomorrow week - Sunday \expndtw3 the twenty-third - we're running off the great Sermon Handicap. \expndtw5 Steggles is making the book. Each parson is to be clocked by a \expndtw2 reliable steward of the course, and the one that preaches the longest \expndtw5 sermon wins. Did you study the race-card I sent you?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'I couldn't understand what it was all about.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Why, you chump, it gives the handicaps and the current odds on \expndtw5 each starter. I've got another one here, in case you've lost yours. \expndtw1 Take a careful look at it. It gives you the thing in a nutshell. Jeeves, \expndtw4 old son, do you want a sporting flutter?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Sir?' said Jeeves, who had just meandered in with my breakfast.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 Claude explained the scheme. Amazing the way Jeeves grasped it \expndtw4 right off. But he merely smiled in a paternal sort of way.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'Thank you, sir, I think not.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'Well, you're with us, Bertie, aren't you?' said Claude, sneaking \expndtw4 a roll and a slice of bacon. 'Have you studied that card? Well, tell \expndtw3 me, does anything strike you about it?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 Of course it did. It had struck me the moment I looked at it.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Why, it's a sitter for old Heppenstall,' I said. 'He's got the event \expndtw7 sewed up in a parcel. There isn't a parson in the land who could \expndtw5 give him eight minutes. Your pal Steggles must be an ass, giving \expndtw6 him a handicap like that. Why, in the days when I was with him, \expndtw3 old Heppenstall never used to preach under half an hour, and there \expndtw2 was one sermon of his on Brotherly Love which lasted forty-five \expndtw4 minutes if it lasted a second. Has he lost his vim lately, or what is \expndtw-4 it?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Not a bit of it,' said Eustace. 'Tell him what happened, Claude.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'Why,' said Claude, 'the first Sunday we were here, we all went \expndtw3 to Twing church, and old Heppenstall preached a sermon that was well under twenty minutes. This is what happened. Steggles didn't \expndtw6 notice it, and the Rev. didn't notice it himself, but Eustace and I \expndtw4 both spotted that he had dropped a chunk of at least half a dozen \expndtw6 pages out of his sermon-case as he was walking up to the pulpit. \expndtw2 He sort of flickered when he got to the gap in the manuscript, but \expndtw0 carried on all right, and Steggles went away with the impression that \expndtw3 twenty minutes or a bit under was his usual form. The next Sunday \expndtw4 we heard Tucker and Starkie, and they both went well over the thirty-five minutes, so Steggles arranged the handicapping as you \expndtw7 see on the card. You must come into this, Bertie. You see, the \expndtw8 trouble is that I haven't a bean, and Eustace hasn't a bean, and \expndtw2 Bingo Little hasn't a bean, so you'll have to finance the syndicate. Don't weaken! It's just putting money in all our pockets. Well, we'll \expndtw4 have to be getting back now. Think the thing over, and phone me \expndtw6 later in the day. And, if you let us down, Bertie, may a cousin's \expndtw7 curse - Come on, Claude, old thing.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 The more I studied the scheme, the better it looked.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'How about it, Jeeves?' I said.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 Jeeves smiled gently, and drifted out.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Jeeves has no sporting blood,' said Bingo.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Well, I have. I'm coming into this. Claude's quite right. It's like \expndtw0 finding, money by the wayside.'\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Good man!' said Bingo. 'Now I can see daylight. Say I have a \expndtw1 tenner on Heppenstall, and cop; that'll give me a bit in hand to back Pink Pill with in the two o'clock at Gatwick the week after next; cop \expndtw4 on that, put the pile on Musk-Rat for the one-thirty at Lewes, and \expndtw5 there I am with a nice little sum to take to Alexandra Park on September the tenth, when I've got a tip straight from the stable.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 It sounded like a bit out \i of Smiles's Self-Help.\cf0\expndtw0\i0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'And then,' said young Bingo, Til be in a position to go to my \expndtw1 uncle and beard him in his lair somewhat. He's quite a bit of a snob, \expndtw4 you know, and when he hears that I'm going to marry the daughter \expndtw12 of an earl -'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'I say, old man,' I couldn't help saying, 'aren't you looking ahead \expndtw3 rather far?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Oh, that's all right. It's true nothing's actually settled yet, but she \expndtw4 practically told me the other day she was fond of me.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'What!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Well, she said that the sort of man she liked was the self-reliant, \expndtw4 manly man with strength, good looks, character, ambition, and \expndtw-1 initiative.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Leave me, laddie,' I said. 'Leave me to my fried egg.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\par
\cf1\expndtw1 Directly I'd got up I went to the phone, snatched Eustace away from \expndtw2 his morning's work, and instructed him to put a tenner on the Twing \expndtw7 flier at current odds for each of the syndicate; and after lunch \expndtw3 Eustace rang me up to say that he had done business at a snappy seven-to-one, the odds having lengthened owing to a rumour in \expndtw4 knowledgeable circles that the Rev. was subject to hay-fever, and \expndtw1 was taking big chances strolling in the paddock behind the Vicarage in the early mornings. And it was dashed lucky, I thought next day, that we had managed to get the money on in time, for on the Sunday \expndtw3 morning old Heppenstall fairly took the bit between his teeth, and \expndtw2 gave us thirty-six solid minutes on Certain Popular Superstitions. I \expndtw0 was sitting next to Steggles in the pew, and I saw him blench visibly. \expndtw2 He was a little rat-faced fellow, with shifty eyes and a suspicious \expndtw7 nature. The first thing he did when he emerged into the open air \expndtw1 was to announce, formally, that anyone who fancied the Rev. could \expndtw5 now be accommodated at fifteen-to-eight on, and he added, in a \expndtw3 rather nasty manner, that if he had his way, this sort of in-and-out \expndtw4 running would be brought to the attention of the Jockey Club, but that he supposed that there was nothing to be done about it. This \expndtw8 ruinous price checked the punters at once, and there was little \expndtw1 money in sight. And so matters stood till just after lunch on Tuesday \expndtw7 afternoon, when, as I was strolling up and down in front of the \expndtw5 house with a cigarette, Claude and Eustace came bursting up the \expndtw3 drive on bicycles, dripping with momentous news.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Bertie,' said Claude, deeply agitated, 'unless we take immediate \expndtw5 action and do a bit of quick thinking, we're in the cart.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'What's the matter?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'G. Hayward's the matter,' said Eustace morosely. 'The Lower \expndtw2 Bingley starter.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'We never even considered him,' said Claude. 'Somehow or other, \expndtw0 he got overlooked. It's always the way. Steggles overlooked him. We \expndtw2 all overlooked him. But Eustace and I happened by the merest fluke to be riding through Lower Bingley this morning, and there was a \expndtw3 wedding on at the church, and it suddenly struck us that it wouldn't be a bad move to get a line on G. Hayward's form, in case he might \expndtw6 be a dark horse.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'And it was jolly lucky we did,' said Eustace. 'He delivered an \expndtw2 address of twenty-six minutes by Claude's stop-watch. At a village wedding, mark you! What'll we do when he really extends himself!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw7 'There's only one thing to be done, Bertie,' said Claude. 'You \expndtw6 must spring some more funds, so that we can hedge on Hayward \expndtw2 and save ourselves.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw32 'But-'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Well, it's the only way out.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'But I say, you know, I hate the idea of all that money we put on \expndtw2 HeppenstaU being chucked away.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'What else can you suggest? You don't suppose the Rev. can give \expndtw4 this absolute marvel a handicap and win, do you?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'I've got it!' I said.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'What?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'I see a way by which we can make it safe for our nominee. I'll \expndtw2 pop over this afternoon, and ask him as a personal favour to preach \expndtw5 that sermon of his on Brotherly Love on Sunday.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 Claude and Eustace looked at each other, like those chappies in \expndtw3 the poem, with a wild surmise.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'It's a scheme,' said Claude.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'A jolly brainy scheme,' said Eustace. 'I didn't think you had it in \expndtw3 you, Bertie.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'But even so,' said Claude, 'fizzer as that sermon no doubt is, will \expndtw5 it be good enough in the face of a four-minute handicap?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Rather!* I said. 'When I told you it lasted forty-five minutes, I \expndtw2 was probably understating it. I should call it - from my recollection \expndtw6 of the thing - nearer fifty.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'Then carry on,' said Claude.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 I toddled over in the evening and fixed the thing up. Old Heppen-\expndtw6 stall was most decent about the whole affair. He seemed pleased \expndtw4 and touched that I should have remembered the sermon all these \expndtw6 years, and said he had once or twice had an idea of preaching it \expndtw4 again, only it had seemed to him, on reflection, that it was perhaps \expndtw3 a trifle long for a rustic congregation.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'And in these restless times, my dear Wooster,' he said, 'I fear that brevity in the pulpit is becoming more and more desiderated \expndtw-1 by even the bucolic churchgoer, who one might have supposed would \expndtw2 be less afflicted with the spirit of hurry and impatience than his \expndtw6 metropolitan brother. I have had many arguments on the subject \expndtw1 with my nephew, young Bates, who is taking my old friend Spetti-\expndtw8 gue's cure over at Gandle-by-the-Hill. His view is that a sermon\cf0\expndtw0  \cf1\expndtw5 nowadays should be a bright, brisk, straight-from-the shoulder \expndtw4 address, never lasting more than ten or twelve minutes.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Long?' I said. 'Why, my goodness! You don't call that Brotherly \expndtw2 Love sermon of yours \i long, \i0 do you?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'It takes fully fifty minutes to deliver.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Surely not?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Your incredulity, my dear Wooster, is extremely flattering - far \expndtw6 more flattering, of course, than I deserve. Nevertheless, the facts \expndtw5 are as I have stated. You are sure that I would not be well advised to make certain excisions and eliminations? You do not think it \expndtw9 would be a good thing to cut, to prune? I might, for example, \expndtw1 delete the rather exhaustive excursus into the family life of the early \expndtw-3 Assyrians?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Don't touch a word of it, or you'll spoil the whole thing,' I said \expndtw-1 earnestly.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'I am delighted to hear you say so, and I shall preach the sermon \expndtw4 without fail next Sunday morning.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\par
\cf1 What I have always said, and what I always shall say, is, that this \expndtw2 ante-post betting is a mistake, an error, and a mug's game. You can \expndtw0 never tell what's going to happen. If fellows would only stick to the \expndtw2 good old SP there would be fewer young men go wrong. I'd hardly \expndtw3 finished my breakfast on the Saturday morning, when Jeeves came \expndtw5 to my bedside to say that Eustace wanted me on the telephone.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Good Lord, Jeeves, what's the matter, do you think?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 I'm bound to say I was beginning to get a bit jumpy by this time.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'Mr Eustace did not confide in me, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'Has he got the wind up?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Somewhat vertically, sir, to judge by his voice.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Do you know what I think, Jeeves? Something's gone wrong with \expndtw3 the favourite.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Which is the favourite, sir?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw7 'Mr Heppenstall. He's gone to odds on. He was intending to \expndtw2 preach a sermon on Brotherly Love which would have brought him \expndtw5 home by lengths. I wonder if anything's happened to him.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'You could ascertain, sir, by speaking to Mr Eustace on the tele\expndtw6 phone. He is holding the wire.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'By Jove, yes!'\cf0\par
\cf1 I shoved on a dressing gown, and flew downstairs like a mighty, \expndtw2 rushing wind. The moment I heard Eustace's voice I knew we were \expndtw4 for it. It had a croak of agony in it.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-2 'Bertie?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Here I am.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 'Deuce of a time you've been. Bertie, we're sunk. The favourite's blown up.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'No!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Yes. Coughing in his stable all last night.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'What!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Absolutely! Hay-fever.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Oh, my sainted aunt!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'The doctor is with him now, and it's only a question of minutes before he's officially scratched. That means the curate will show up \expndtw7 at the post instead, and he's no good at all. He is being offered at \expndtw5 a hundred-to-six, but no takers. What shall we do?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 I had to grapple with the thing for a moment in silence.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Eustace.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Hallo?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'What can you get on G. Hayward?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'Only four to one now. I think there's been a leak, and Steggles has \expndtw2 heard something. The odds shortened late last night in a significant \expndtw5 manner.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Well, four to one will clear us. Put another fiver all round on G. \expndtw4 Hayward for the syndicate. That'll bring us out on the right side of the ledger.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'If he wins.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'What do you mean? I thought you considered him a cert, bar \expndtw4 Heppenstall.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'I'm beginning to wonder,' said Eustace gloomily, 'if there's such \expndtw3 a thing as a cert, in this world. I'm told the Rev. Joseph Tucker did an extraordinarily fine trial gallop at a mothers' meeting over at \expndtw2 Badgwick yesterday. However, it seems our only chance. So-long.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 Not being one of the official stewards, I had my choice of churches \expndtw2 next morning, and naturally I didn't hesitate. The only drawback to \expndtw0 going to Lower Bingley was that it was ten miles away, which meant \expndtw2 an early start, but I borrowed a bicycle from one of the grooms and \expndtw5 tooled off. I had only Eustace's word for it that G. Hayward was \expndtw7 such a stayer, and it might have been that he had showed too \expndtw6 flattering form at that wedding where the twins had heard him \expndtw1 preach; but any misgivings I may have had disappeared the moment \expndtw3 he got into the pulpit. Eustace had been right. The man was a trier. \expndtw4 He was a tall, rangy-looking greybeard, and he went off from the start with a nice, easy action, pausing and clearing his throat at the\cf0\expndtw0  \cf1\expndtw5 end of each sentence, and it wasn't five minutes before I realized \expndtw4 that here was the winner. His habit of stopping dead and looking round the church at intervals was worth minutes to us, and in the \expndtw5 home stretch we gained no little advantage owing to his dropping \expndtw3 his pince-nez and having to grope for them. At the twenty-minute \expndtw5 mark he had merely settled down. Twenty-five minutes saw him \expndtw3 going strong. And when he finally finished with a good burst, the \expndtw2 clock showed thirty-five minutes fourteen seconds. With the handicap which he had been given, this seemed to me to make the event \expndtw-2 easy for him, and it was with much \i bonhomie \i0 and goodwill to all men \expndtw6 that I hopped on to the old bike and started back to the Hall for \expndtw1 lunch.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 Bingo was talking on the phone when I arrived.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Fine! Splendid! Topping!' he was saying. 'Eh? Oh, we needn't worry about him. Right-o, I'll tell Bertie.' He hung up the receiver \expndtw5 and caught sight of me. 'Oh, hallo, Bertie; I was just talking to \expndtw2 Eustace. It's all right, old man. The report from Lower Bingley has \expndtw6 just got in. G. Hayward romps home.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'I knew he would. I've just come from there.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Oh, were you there? I went to Badgwick. Tucker ran a splendid \expndtw5 race, but the handicap was too much for him. Starkie had a sore \expndtw3 throat and was nowhere. Roberts, of Fale-by-the-Water, ran third. \expndtw4 Good old G. Hayward!' said Bingo affectionately, and we strolled \expndtw6 out on to the terrace.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'Are all the returns hi, then?' I asked.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw8 'All except Gandle-by-the-Hill. But we needn't worry about \expndtw1 Bates. He never had a chance. By the way, poor old Jeeves loses his \expndtw3 tenner. Silly ass!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Jeeves? How do you mean?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'He came to me this morning, just after you had left, and asked \expndtw7 me to put a tenner on Bates for him. I told him he was a chump, \expndtw4 and begged him not to throw his money away, but he would do it.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'I beg your pardon, sir. This note arrived for you just after you \expndtw6 had left the house this morning.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 Jeeves had materialized from nowhere, and was standing at my \expndtw-5 elbow.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Eh? What? Note?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'The Reverend Mr HeppenstalPs butler brought it over from the \expndtw2 Vicarage, sir. It came too late to be delivered to you at the moment.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 Young Bingo was talking to Jeeves like a father on the subject of\cf0\expndtw0  \cf1\expndtw3 betting against the form-book. The yell I gave made him bite his \expndtw1 tongue in the middle of a sentence.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'What the dickens is the matter?' he asked, not a little peeved.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'We're dished! Listen to this!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 I read him the note:\cf0\expndtw0\par
\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi360\li720\ri2790\sb29\qr\cf1\expndtw-2\i The Vicarage,.\cf0\expndtw0\i0\par
\cf1\expndtw-3\i Twing, Glos. \par
\pard\cbpat2\fi360\li720\ri2790\sb29\expndtw1 My Dear Wooster,\cf0\expndtw0\i0\par
\cf1\expndtw-2\i As you may have heard, circumstances over which I have no control \expndtw1 mil prevent my preaching the sermon on Brotherly Love for which \expndtw4 you made such a flattering request. I am unwilling, however, that \expndtw1 you shall be disappointed, so, if you will attend divine service at Gandle-by-the-Hill this morning, you will hear my sermon preached \expndtw2 by young Bates, my nephew. I have lent him the manuscript at his \expndtw-3 urgent desire, for, between ourselves, there are wheels within wheels. \expndtw-1 My nephew is one of the candidates for the headmastership of a well-\expndtw-2 known public school, and the choice has narrowed down between him \expndtw2 and one rival.\cf0\expndtw0\i0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1\i Late yesterday evening James received private information that the \expndtw3 head of the Board of Governors of the school proposed to sit under \expndtw2 him this Sunday in order to judge of the merits of his preaching, a \expndtw0 most important item in swaying the Board's choice. I acceded to his \expndtw3 plea that I lend him my sermon on Brotherly Love, of which, like you, he apparently retains a vivid recollection. It would have been too late for him to compose a sermon of suitable length in place of \expndtw7 this brief address which - mistakenly, in my opinion - he had \expndtw1 designed to deliver to his rustic flock, and I wished to help the boy.\cf0\expndtw0\i0\par
\cf1\expndtw1\i Trusting that his preaching of the sermon will supply you with as \expndtw2 pleasant memories as you say you have of mine, I remain,\cf0\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi360\li720\ri2790\sb29\qc\cf1\expndtw-2\i Cordially yours,\cf0\expndtw0\i0\par
\cf1\expndtw-2 F. \scaps Heppenstall.\cf0\expndtw0\scaps0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi360\li720\ri2790\sb29\cf1\expndtw1\i PS - The hay-fever has rendered my eyes unpleasantly weak for the \expndtw-1 time being, so I am dictating this letter to my butler, Brookfield, who will convey it to you.\cf0\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi360\ri-1800\sb29\par
\cf1\expndtw-3 I don't know when I've experienced a more massive silence than the one that followed my reading of this cheery epistle. Young Bingo \expndtw0 gulped once or twice, and practically every known emotion came \expndtw2 and went on his face. Jeeves coughed one soft, low, gentle cough\cf0\expndtw0  \cf1\expndtw-2 like a sheep with a blade of grass stuck in its throat, and then stood \expndtw-1 gazing serenely at the landscape. Finally young Bingo spoke.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Great Scott!' he whispered hoarsely. 'An SP job!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'I believe that is the technical term, sir,' said Jeeves.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'So you had inside information, dash it!' said young Bingo.\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw-3 'Why, yes, sir,' said Jeeves. 'Brookfield happened to mention the \expndtw0 contents of the note to me when he brought it. We are old friends.'\cf0\par
\cf1 Bingo registered grief, anguish, rage, despair and resentment.\cf0\par
\cf1 'Well, all I can say,' he cried, 'is that it's a bit thick! Preaching \expndtw-1 another man's sermon! Do you call that honest? Do you call that \expndtw-3 playing the game?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Well, my dear old thing,' I said, 'be fair. It's quite within the \expndtw-2 rules. Clergymen do it all the time. They aren't expected always to \expndtw1 make up the sermons they preach.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 Jeeves coughed again, and fixed me with an expressionless eye.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'And in the present case, sir, if I may be permitted to take the \expndtw-6 liberty of making the observation, I think we should make allowances. \expndtw-3 We should remember that the securing of this headmastership meant \expndtw-1 everything to the young couple.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-2 'Young couple? What young couple?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-2 The Reverend James Bates, sir, and Lady Cynthia. I am informed \expndtw1 by her ladyship's maid that they have been engaged to be married \expndtw-1 for some weeks - provisionally, so to speak; and his lordship made \expndtw-3 his consent conditional on Mr Bates securing a really important and \expndtw-1 remunerative position.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 Young Bingo turned a light green.\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Engaged to be married!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 'Yes, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 There was a silence.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'I think I'll go for a walk,' said Bingo.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'But, my dear old thing,' I said, 'it's just lunch-time. The gong \expndtw-1 will be going any minute now.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'I don't want any lunch!' said Bingo.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\par
\cf1\expndtw-34\ul\b 14\expndtw0\tab\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw10 The Purity of the Turf\cf0\expndtw0\ulnone\b0\par
\par
\cf1\expndtw4 After that, life at Twing jogged along pretty peacefully for a bit. Twing is one of those places where there isn't a frightful lot to do \expndtw1 nor any very hectic excitement to look forward to. In fact, the only \expndtw2 event of any importance on the horizon, as far as I could ascertain, \expndtw1 was the annual village school-treat. One simply filled in the time by \expndtw0 loafing about the grounds, playing a bit of tennis, and avoiding young \expndtw2 Bingo as far as was humanly possible.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 This last was a very necessary move if you wanted a happy life, \expndtw5 for the Cynthia affair had jarred the unfortunate mutt to such an \expndtw0 extent that he was always waylaying one and decanting his anguished \expndtw6 soul. And when, one morning, he blew into my bedroom while I \expndtw1 was toying with a bit of breakfast, I decided to take a firm line from the start. I could stand having him moaning all over me after dinner, \expndtw4 and even after lunch; but at breakfast, no. We Woosters are ami\expndtw3 ability itself, but there is a limit.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Now look here, old friend,' I said. 'I know your bally heart is \expndtw3 broken and all that, and at some future time I shall be delighted to \expndtw9 hear all about it, but -'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'I didn't come to talk about that.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'No? Good egg!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'The past,' said young Bingo, 'is dead. Let us say no more about \expndtw2 it.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Right-o!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'I have been wounded to the very depths of my soul, but don't \expndtw4 speak about it.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'I won't.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'Ignore it. Forget it.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 'Absolutely!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 I hadn't seen him so dashed reasonable for days.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'What I came to see you about this morning, Bertie,' he said, \expndtw2 fishing a sheet of paper out of his pocket, 'was to ask if you would \expndtw5 care to come in on another little flutter.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 If there is one thing we Woosters are simply dripping with, it is sporting blood. I bolted the rest of my sausage, and sat up and took \expndtw-1 notice.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Proceed,' I said. 'You interest me strangely, old bird.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 Bingo laid the paper on the bed.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'On Monday week,' he said, 'you may or may not know, the annual \expndtw5 village school-treat takes place. Lord Wickhammersley lends the \expndtw3 Hall grounds for the purpose. There will be games and a conjurer, \expndtw6 and coco-nut shies, and tea in a tent. And also sports.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'I know. Cynthia was telling me.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 Young Bingo winced.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Would you mind not mentioning that name? I am not made of marble.'\par
\expndtw3 'Sorry!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Well, as I was saying, this jamboree is slated for Monday week. \expndtw5 The question is, Are we on?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'How do you mean, "Are we on?"?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw7 'I am referring to the sports. Steggles did so well out of the \expndtw6 Sermon Handicap that he has decided to make a book on these \expndtw3 sports. Punters can be accommodated at ante-post odds or starting \expndtw5 price, according to their preference. I think we ought to look into \expndtw2 it,' said young Bingo.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 I pressed the bell.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'I'll consult Jeeves. I don't touch any sporting proposition without \expndtw5 his advice. Jeeves,' I said, as he drifted in,''rally round.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Sir?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Stand by. We want your advice.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Very good, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'State your case, Bingo.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 Bingo stated his case.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'What about it, Jeeves?' I said. 'Do we go in?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 Jeeves pondered to some extent.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'I am inclined to favour the idea, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 That was good enough for me. 'Right,' I said. 'Then we will form \expndtw1 a syndicate and bust the Ring. I supply the money, you supply the \expndtw4 brains, and Bingo - what do you supply, Bingo?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'If you will carry me, and let me settle up later,' said young Bingo, 'I think I can put you in the way of winning a parcel on the Mothers' \expndtw3 Sack Race.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'All right. We will put you down as Inside Information. Now what \expndtw3 are the events?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 Bingo reached for his paper and consulted it.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 'Girls' Under Fourteen Fifty-Yard Dash seems to open the pro\expndtw-2 ceedings.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-2 'Anything to say about that, Jeeves?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'No, sir. I have no information.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'What's the next?'\cf0\par
\cf1 'Boys' and Girls' Mixed Animal Potato Race, All Ages.'\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 This was a new one to me. I had never heard of it at any of the \expndtw-3 big meetings.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'What's that?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 'Rather sporting,' said young Bingo. 'The competitors enter in \expndtw-2 couples, each couple being assigned an animal cry and a potato. For \expndtw0 instance, let's suppose that you and Jeeves entered. Jeeves would stand at a fixed point holding a potato. You would have your head \expndtw2 in a sack, and you would grope about trying to find Jeeves and \expndtw1 making a noise like a cat; Jeeves also making a noise like a cat. \expndtw-3 Other competitors would be making noises like cows and pigs and \expndtw0 dogs, and so on, and groping about for \i their \i0 potato-holders, who would also be making noises like cows and pigs and dogs and so \expndtw40 on-'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 I stopped the poor fish.\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Jolly if you're fond of animals,' I said, 'but on the whole -'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Precisely, sir,' said Jeeves. 'I wouldn't touch it.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Too open, what?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 'Exactly, sir. Very hard to estimate form.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Carry on, Bingo. Where do we go from there?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Mothers' Sack Race.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Ah! That's better. This is where you know something.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-3 'A gift for Mrs Penworthy, the tobacconist's wife,' said Bingo \expndtw-1 confidently. 'I was in at her shop yesterday, buying cigarettes, and \expndtw-2 she told me she had won three times at fairs in Worcestershire. She \expndtw-3 only moved to these parts a short time ago, so nobody knows about \expndtw-1 her. She promised me she would keep herself dark, and I think we \expndtw0 could get a good price.'\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 'Risk a tenner each way, Jeeves, what?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'I think so, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Girls' Open Egg and Spoon Race,' read Bingo.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'How about that?'\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'I doubt if it would be worthwhile to invest, sir,' said Jeeves. 'I \expndtw-3 am told it is a certainty for last year's winner, Sarah Mills, who will \expndtw0 doubtless start an odds-on favourite.'\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Good, is she?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'They tell me in the village that she carries a beautiful egg, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Then there's the Obstacle Race,' said Bingo. 'Risky, in my \expndtw1 opinion. Like betting on the Grand National. Fathers' Hat-Trim\expndtw-1 ming Contest - another speculative event. That's all except for the Choir-Boys' Hundred Yards Handicap, for a pewter mug presented \expndtw-3 by the vicar - open to all whose voices have not broken before the \expndtw-2 second Sunday in Epiphany. Willie Chambers won last year, in a canter, receiving fifteen yards. This time he will probably be handi\expndtw1 capped out of the race. I don't know what to advise.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'If I might make a suggestion, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 I eyed Jeeves with interest. I don't know that I'd ever seen him \expndtw-2 look so nearly excited.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 'You've got something up your sleeve?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'I have, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Red-hot?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'That precisely describes it, sir. I think I may confidently assert \expndtw2 that we have the winner of the Choir-Boys' Handicap under this \expndtw0 very roof, sir. Harold, the page-boy.'\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw-3 'Page-boy? Do you mean the tubby little chap in buttons one sees \expndtw-2 bobbing about here and there? Why, dash it, Jeeves, nobody has a \expndtw1 greater respect for your knowledge of form than I have, but I'm \expndtw-2 hanged if I can see Harold catching the judge's eye. He's practically circular, and every time I've seen him he's been leaning up against \expndtw-1 something, half asleep.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'He receives thirty yards, sir, and could win from scratch. The \expndtw-1 boy is a flier.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-2 'How do you know?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 Jeeves coughed, and there was a dreamy look in his eye.\cf0\par
\cf1 'I was as much astonished as yourself, sir, when I first became \expndtw-2 aware of the lad's capabilities. I happened to pursue him one morn\expndtw5 ing with the intention of fetching him a clip on the side of the \expndtw16 head -'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 'Great Scott, Jeeves! You?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Yes, sir. The boy is of an outspoken disposition, and had made \expndtw0 an opprobrious remark respecting my personal appearance.'\cf0\par
\cf1 'What did he say about your appearance?'\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'I have forgotten, sir,' said Jeeves, with a touch of austerity. 'But \expndtw0 it was opprobrious. I endeavoured to correct him, but he outdis\expndtw1 tanced me by yards and made good his escape.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'But, I say, Jeeves, this is sensational. And yet - if he's such a\cf0\expndtw0  \cf1\expndtw1 sprinter, why hasn't anybody in the village found it out? Surely he \expndtw-1 plays with the other boys?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'No, sir. As his lordship's page-boy, Harold does not mix with \expndtw-2 the village lads.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Bit of a snob, what?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'He is somewhat acutely alive to the existence of class distinctions, \expndtw1 sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'You're absolutely certain he's such a wonder?' said Bingo. 'I mean, it wouldn't do to plunge unless you're sure.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'If you desire to ascertain the boy's form by personal inspection, \expndtw5 sir, it will be a simple matter to arrange a secret trial.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'I'm bound to say I should feel easier in my mind,' I said.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Then if I may take a shilling from the money on your dressing-\expndtw14 table -'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'What for?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'I propose to bribe the lad to speak slightingly of the second \expndtw1 footman's quint, sir. Charles is somewhat sensitive on the point, and \expndtw4 should undoubtedly make the lad extend himself. If you will be at \expndtw5 the first-floor passage-window, overlooking the back door, in half \expndtw8 an hour's time - '\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 I don't know when I've dressed in such a hurry. As a rule, I'm \expndtw2 what you might call a slow and careful dresser: I like to linger over \expndtw5 the tie and see that the trousers are just so; but this morning I was \expndtw1 all worked up. I just shoved on my things anyhow, and joined Bingo \expndtw5 at the window with a quarter of an hour to spare.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 The passage-window looked down on to a broad sort of paved \expndtw5 courtyard, which ended after about twenty yards in an archway \expndtw2 through a high wall. Beyond this archway you got to a strip of the \expndtw3 drive, which curved round for another thirty yards or so, till it was \expndtw5 lost behind a thick shrubbery. I put myself in the stripling's place and thought what steps I would take with a second footman after me. There was only one thing to do - leg it for the shrubbery and \expndtw1 take cover; which meant that at least fifty yards would have to be \expndtw2 covered - an excellent test. If good old Harold could fight off the second footman's challenge long enough to allow him to reach the \expndtw5 bushes, there wasn't a choir-boy in England who could give him \expndtw0 thirty yards in the hundred. I waited, all of a twitter, for what seemed \expndtw4 like hours, and then suddenly there was a confused noise without, and something round and blue and buttony shot through the back \expndtw3 door and buzzed for the archway like a mustang. And about two \expndtw5 seconds later out came the second footman, going his hardest.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 There was nothing to it. Absolutely nothing. The field never had \expndtw6 a chance. Long before the footman reached the half-way mark, \expndtw2 Harold was in the bushes, throwing stones. I came away from the \expndtw4 window thrilled to the marrow; and when I met Jeeves on the stairs I was so moved that I nearly grasped his hand.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw9 'Jeeves,' I said, 'no discussion! The Wooster shirt goes on this\cf0\expndtw0  \cf1\expndtw-3 boy!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Very good, sir,' said Jeeves.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\par
\cf1\expndtw5 The worst of these country meetings is that you can't plunge as \expndtw4 heavily as you would like when you get a good thing, because it \expndtw1 alarms the Ring. Steggles, though pimpled, was, as I have indicated, \expndtw4 no chump, and if I had invested all I wanted to he would have put \expndtw5 two and two together. I managed to get a good solid bet down for \expndtw2 the syndicate, however, though it did make him look thoughtful. I \expndtw7 heard in the next few days that he had been making searching \expndtw5 inquiries in the village concerning Harold; but nobody could tell \expndtw1 him anything, and eventually he came to the conclusion, I suppose, \expndtw2 that I must be having a long shot on the strength of that thirty-yards start. Public opinion wavered between Jimmy Goode, receiving ten \expndtw3 yards, at seven-to-two, and Alexander Bartlett, with six yards start, \expndtw6 at eleven-to-four. Willie Chambers, scratch, was offered to the \expndtw5 public at two-to-one but found no takers.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 We were taking no chances on the big event, and directly we had \expndtw3 got our money on at a nice hundred-to-twelve, Harold was put into \expndtw2 strict training. It was a wearing business, and I can understand now \expndtw0 why most of the big trainers are grim, silent men, who look as though \expndtw7 they had suffered. The kid wanted constant watching. It was no \expndtw5 good talking to him about honour and glory and how proud his \expndtw8 mother would be when he wrote and told her he had won a real \expndtw3 cup - the moment blighted Harold discovered that training meant \expndtw1 knocking off pastry, taking exercise, and keeping away from the \expndtw-2 cigarettes, he was all against it, and it was only by unceasing vigilance \expndtw7 that we managed to keep him in any shape at all. It was the diet \expndtw3 that was the stumbling-block. As far as exercise went, we could \expndtw1 generally arrange for a sharp dash every morning with the assistance of the second footman. It ran into money, of course, but that couldn't \expndtw4 be helped. Still, when a kid has simply to wait till the butler's back \expndtw3 is turned to have the run of the pantry, and has only to nip into the \expndtw9 smoking-room to collect a handful of the best Turkish, training\cf0\expndtw0  \cf1\expndtw1 becomes a rocky job. We could only hope that on the day his natural \expndtw3 stamina would pull him through.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 And then one evening young Bingo came back from the links with \expndtw2 a disturbing story. He had been in the habit of giving Harold mild \expndtw4 exercise in the afternoons by taking him out as a caddie.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 At first he seemed to think it humorous, the poor chump! He \expndtw4 bubbled over with merry mirth as he began his tale.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'I say, rather funny this afternoon,' he said. 'You ought to have seen Steggles's face.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Seen Steggles's face? What for?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'When he saw young Harold sprint, I mean.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 I was filled with a grim foreboding of an awful doom.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Good heavens! You didn't let Harold sprint in front of Steggles?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 Young Bingo's jaw dropped.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'I never thought of that,' he said, gloomily. 'It wasn't my fault. I \expndtw1 was playing a round with Steggles, and after we'd finished we went \expndtw3 into the club-house for a drink, leaving Harold with the clubs out\expndtw4 side. In about five minutes we came out, and there was the kid on \expndtw1 the gravel practising swings with Steggle's driver and a stone. When \expndtw0 he saw us coming, the kid dropped the club and was over the horizon \expndtw2 like a streak. Steggles was absolutely dumbfounded. And I must say \expndtw6 it was a revelation to me. The kid certainly gave of his best. Of \expndtw2 course, it's a nuisance in a way; but I don't see, on second thoughts,' \expndtw7 said Bingo, brightening up, 'what it matters. We're in at a good \expndtw4 price. We've nothing to lose by the kid's form becoming known. I \expndtw5 take it he will start odds-on, but that doesn't affect us.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 I looked at Jeeves. Jeeves looked at me.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'It affects us all right if he doesn't start at all.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Precisely, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'What do you mean?' asked Bingo.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'If you ask me,' I said, 'I think Steggles will try to nobble him before the race.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Good Lord! I never thought of that!' Bingo blenched. 'You don't \expndtw3 think he would really do it?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'I think he would have a jolly good try. Steggles is a bad man. From now on, Jeeves, we must watch Harold like hawks.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Undoubtedly, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Ceaseless vigilance, what?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Precisely, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'You wouldn't care to sleep in his room, Jeeves?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'No, sir, I should not.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'No, nor would I, if it comes to that. But dash it all,' I said, 'we're \expndtw3 letting ourselves get rattled! We're losing our nerve. This won't do. \expndtw4 How can Steggles possibly get at Harold, even if he wants to?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 There was no cheering young Bingo up. He's one of those birds \expndtw2 who simply leap at the morbid view, if you give them half a chance.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'There are all sorts of ways of nobbling favourites,' he said, in a \expndtw7 sort of death-bed voice. 'You ought to read some of the racing \expndtw2 novels. In \i Pipped on the Post \i0 Lord Jasper Maulevereras near as a \expndtw4 toucher outed Bonny Betsy by bribing the head lad to slip a cobra \expndtw6 into her saddle the night before the Derby!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'What are the chances of a cobra biting Harold, Jeeves?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Slight, I should imagine, sir. And in such an event, knowing the \expndtw0 boy as intimately as I do, my anxiety would be entirely for the snake.'\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Still, unceasing vigilance, Jeeves.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Most certainly, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\par
\cf1\expndtw1 I must say I got a bit fed up with young Bingo in the next few days. \expndtw-1 It's all very well for a fellow with a big winner in his stable to exercise \expndtw1 proper care, but in my opinion Bingo overdid it. The blighter's mind appeared to be absolutely saturated with racing fiction; and in stories \expndtw2 of that kind, as far as I could make out, no horse is ever allowed to \expndtw8 start in a race without at least a dozen attempts to put it out of \expndtw4 action. He stuck to Harold like a plaster. Never let the unfortunate \expndtw5 kid out of his sight. Of course, it meant a lot to the poor old egg if he could collect on this race, because it would give him enough \expndtw2 money to chuck his tutoring job and get back to London; but all the \expndtw3 same, he needn't have woken me up at three in the morning twice running - once to tell me we ought to cook Harold's food ourselves \expndtw1 to prevent doping: the other time to say that he had heard mysterious \expndtw5 noises in the shrubbery. But he reached the limit, in my opinion, \expndtw1 when he insisted on my going to evening service on Sunday, the day \expndtw4 before the sports.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Why on earth?' I said, never being much of a lad for evensong.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Well, I can't go myself. I shan't be here. I've got to go to London today with young Egbert.' Egbert was Lord Wickhammersley's son, \expndtw6 the one Bingo was tutoring. 'He's going for a visit down in Kent, \expndtw1 and I've got to see him off at Charing Cross. It's an infernal nuisance. \expndtw3 I shan't be back till Monday afternoon. In fact, I shall miss most of the sports, I expect. Everything, therefore, depends on you, Bertie.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'But why should either of us go to evening service?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Ass! Harold sings in the choir, doesn't he?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-2 'What about it? I can't stop him dislocating his neck over a high \expndtw1 note, if that's what you're afraid of.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'Fool! Steggles sings in the choir too. There may be dirty work after the service.'\cf0\par
\cf1 'What absolute rot!'\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 'Is it?' said young Bingo. 'Well, let me tell you that in \i Jenny, the \expndtw-5 Girl Jockey, \i0 the villain kidnapped the boy who was to ride the favour\expndtw0 ite the night before the big race, and he was the only one who \expndtw-1 understood and could control the horse, and if the heroine hadn't \expndtw4 dressed up in riding things and -'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 'Oh, all right, all right. But, if there's any danger, it seems to me \expndtw-2 the simplest thing would be for Harold not to turn out on Sunday \expndtw-4 evening.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-2 'He must turn out. You seem to think the infernal kid is a monu\expndtw2 ment of rectitude, beloved by all. He's got the shakiest reputation \expndtw-4 of any kid in the village. He's played hookey from the choir so often \expndtw0 that the vicar told him, if one more thing happened, he would fire \expndtw-3 him out. Nice chumps we should look if he was scratched the night \expndtw1 before the race!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 Well, of course, that being so, there was nothing for it but to \expndtw-3 toddle along.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 There's something about evening service in a country church that \expndtw-2 makes a fellow feel drowsy and peaceful. Sort of end-of-a-perfect-day feeling. Old Heppenstall was up in the pulpit, and he has a kind \expndtw-1 of regular, bleating delivery that assists thought. They had left the \expndtw2 door open, and the air was full of a mixed scent of trees and \expndtw-4 honeysuckle and mildew and villagers' Sunday clothes. As far as the \expndtw-1 eye could reach, you could see farmers propped up in restful attitudes, breathing heavily; and the children in the congregation who \expndtw1 had fidgeted during the earlier part of the proceedings were now lying back in a surfeited sort of coma. The last rays of the setting \expndtw-2 sun shone through the stained-glass windows, birds were twittering \expndtw-1 in the trees, the women's dresses crackled gently in the stillness. \expndtw-2 Peaceful. That's what I'm driving at. I felt peaceful. Everybody felt \expndtw-3 peaceful. And that is why the explosion, when it came, sounded like \expndtw1 the end of all things.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 I call it an explosion, because that was what it seemed like when \expndtw-3 it broke loose. One moment a dreamy hush was all over the place, \expndtw-2 broken only by old Heppenstall talking about our duty to our neigh\expndtw1 bours; and then, suddenly, a sort of piercing, shrieking squeal that\cf0\expndtw0  \cf1\expndtw-3 got you right between the eyes and ran all the way down your spine \expndtw1 and out at the soles of your feet.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'EE-ee-ee-ee-ee! Oo-ee! Ee-ee-ee-ee!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-2 It sounded like about six hundred pigs having their tails twisted \expndtw0 simultaneously, but it was simply the kid Harold, who appeared to \expndtw-2 be having some species of fit. He was jumping up and down and slapping at the back of his neck. And about every other second he \expndtw1 would take a deep breath and give out another of the squeals.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 Well, I mean, you can't do that sort of thing in the middle of \expndtw-2 the sermon during evening service without exciting remark. The \expndtw-3 congregation came out of its trance with a jerk, and climbed on the \expndtw2 pews to get a better view. Old Heppenstall stopped in the middle \expndtw-2 of a sentence and spun round. And a couple of vergers with great \expndtw2 presence of mind bounded up the aisle like leopards, collected \expndtw-2 Harold, still squealing, and marched him out. They disappeared into \expndtw-1 the vestry, and I grabbed my hat and legged it round to the stage-\expndtw7 door, full of apprehension and what not. I couldn't think what \expndtw-2 the deuce could have happened, but somewhere dimly behind the \expndtw0 proceedings there seemed to me to lurk the hand of the blighter \expndtw-5 Steggles.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\par
\cf1\expndtw1 By the time I got there and managed to get someone to open the \expndtw-3 door, which was locked, the service seemed to be over. Old Heppen\expndtw-4 stall was standing in the middle of a crowd of choir-boys and vergers \expndtw0 and sextons and what not, putting the wretched Harold through it \expndtw-1 with no little vim. I had come in at the tail-end of what must have been a fairly fruity oration.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Wretched boy! How dare you -'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'I got a sensitive skin!'\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'This is no time to talk about your skin -'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'Somebody put a beetle down my back!'\cf0\par
\cf1 'Absurd!'\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'I felt it wriggling -'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Nonsense!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Sounds pretty thin, doesn't it?' said someone at my side.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 It was Steggles, dash him. Clad in a snowy surplice or cassock, \expndtw-4 or whatever they call it, and wearing an expression of grave concern, \expndtw0 the blighter had the cold, cynical crust to look me in the eyeball \expndtw-2 without a blink.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Did you put a beetle down his neck?' I cried.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Me!' said Steggles. 'Me!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 Old Heppenstall was putting on the black cap.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'I do not credit a word of your story, wretched boy! I have warned \expndtw1 you before, and now the time has come to act. You cease from this \expndtw5 moment to be a member of my choir. Go, miserable child!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 Steggles plucked at my sleeve.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'In that case,' he said, 'those bets, you know - I'm afraid you lose \expndtw1 your money, dear old boy. It's a pity you didn't put it on SP. I always \expndtw4 think SP's the only safe way.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 I gave him one look. Not a bit of good, of course.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'And they talk about the Purity of the Turf!' I said. And I meant \expndtw1 it to sting, by Jove!\cf0\expndtw0\par
\par
\cf1\expndtw6 Jeeves received the news bravely, but I think the man was a bit \expndtw5 rattled beneath the surface.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'An ingenious young gentleman, Mr Steggles, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'A bally swindler, you mean.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Perhaps that would be a more exact description. However, these \expndtw5 things will happen on the Turf, and it is useless to complain.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'I wish I had your sunny disposition, Jeeves!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 Jeeves bowed.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'We now rely, then, it would seem, sir, almost entirely on Mrs \expndtw1 Penworthy. Should she justify Mr Little's encomiums and show real \expndtw5 class in the Mothers' Sack Race, our gains will just balance our \expndtw1 losses.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Yes; but that's not much consolation when you've been looking \expndtw3 forward to a big win.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'It is just possible that we may still find ourselves on the right side \expndtw2 of the ledger after all, sir. Before Mr Little left, I persuaded him to \expndtw1 invest a small sum for the syndicate of which you were kind enough \expndtw6 to make me a member, sir, on the Girls' Egg and Spoon Race.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'On Sarah Mills?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'No, sir. On a long-priced outsider. Little Prudence Baxter, sir, \expndtw3 the child of his lordship's head gardener. Her father assures me she \expndtw5 has a very steady hand. She is accustomed to bring him a mug of \expndtw4 beer from the cottage each afternoon, and he informs me she has never spilled a drop.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 Well, that sounded as though young Prudence's control was good. But how about speed? With seasoned performers like Sarah Mills \expndtw1 entered, the thing practically amounted to a classic race, and in these \expndtw3 big events you must have speed.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw11 'I am aware that it is what is termed a long shot,' sir. Still, I \expndtw4 thought it judicious.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'You backed here for a place, too, of course?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Yes, sir. Each way.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'Well, I suppose it's all right. I've never known you make a bloomer\cf0  \cf1\expndtw1 yet.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Thank you very much, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\par
\cf1\expndtw1 I'm bound to say that, as a general rule, my idea of a large afternoon would be to keep as far away from a village school-treat as possible. \expndtw2 A sticky business. But with such grave issues toward, if you know \expndtw6 what I mean, I sank my prejudices on this occasion and rolled up. \expndtw3 I found the proceedings about as scaly as I had expected. It was a \expndtw0 warm day, and the hall grounds were a dense, practically liquid mass \expndtw3 of peasantry. Kids seethed to and fro. One of them, a small girl of \expndtw1 sorts, grabbed my hand and hung on to it as I clove my way through \expndtw3 the jam to where the Mothers' Sack Race was to finish. We hadn't \expndtw6 been introduced, but she seemed to think I would do as well as \expndtw3 anyone else to talk to about the rag-doll she had won in the Lucky \expndtw6 Dip, and she rather spread herself on the topic.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'I'm going to call it Gertrude,' she said. 'And I shall undress it every night and put it to bed, and wake it up in the morning and \expndtw2 dress it, and put it to bed at night, and wake it up next morning and \expndtw13 dress it -'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'I say, old thing,' I said, 'I don't want to hurry you and all that, \expndtw3 but you couldn't condense it a bit, could you? I'm rather anxious to \expndtw6 see the finish of this race. The Wooster fortunes are by way of \expndtw4 hanging on it.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'I'm going to run in a race soon,' she said, shelving the doll for \expndtw5 the nonce and descending to ordinary chit-chat.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'Yes?' I said. Distrait, if you know what I mean, and trying to peer \expndtw5 through the chinks in the crowd. 'What race is that?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw8 'Egg 'n' Spoon.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'No really? Are you Sarah Mills?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'Na-ow!' Registering scorn. 'I'm Prudence Baxter.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 Naturally this put our relations on a different footing. I gazed at \expndtw6 her with considerable interest. One of the stable. I must say she \expndtw4 didn't look much of a flier. She was short and round. Bit out of condition, I thought.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw8 'I say,' I said, 'that being so, you mustn't dash about in the hot\cf0\expndtw0  \cf1 sun and take the edge off yourself. You must conserve your energies, \expndtw6 old friend. Sit down here in the shade.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'Don't want to sit down.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Well, take it easy, anyhow.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 The kid flitted to another topic like a butterfly hovering from \expndtw0 flower to flower.\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'I'm a good girl,' she said.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'I bet you are. I hope you're a good egg-and-spoon racer, too.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Harold's a bad boy. Harold squealed in church and isn't allowed \expndtw3 to come to the treat. I'm glad,' continued this ornament of her sex, \expndtw5 wrinkling her nose virtuously, 'because he's a bad boy. He pulled \expndtw1 my hair, Friday. Harold isn't coming to the treat! Harold isn't coming \expndtw6 to the treat! Harold isn't coming to the treat!' she chanted, making \expndtw3 a regular song of it.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Don't rub it in, my dear old gardener's daughter,' I pleaded. 'You \expndtw5 don't know it, but you've hit on a rather painful subject.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'Ah Wooster, my dear fellow! So you have made friends with this \expndtw-1 little lady?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 It was old Heppenstall, beaming pretty profusely. Life and soul \expndtw3 of the party.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'I am delighted, my dear Wooster,' he went on, 'quite delighted \expndtw1 at the way you young men are throwing yourselves into the spirit of \expndtw2 this little festivity of ours.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Oh, yes?' I said.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Oh, yes! Even Rupert Steggles. I must confess that my opinion of \expndtw3 Rupert Steggles has materially altered for the better this afternoon.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 Mine hadn't. But I didn't say so.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'I have always considered Rupert Steggles, between ourselves, a \expndtw5 rather self-centred youth, by no means the kind who would put \expndtw2 himself out to further the enjoyment of his fellows. And yet twice \expndtw1 within the last half-hour I have observed him escorting Mrs Penwor-\expndtw4 thy, our worthy tobacconist's wife, to the refreshment.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 I left him standing. I shook off the clutching hand of the Baxter kid and hared it rapidly to the spot where the Mothers' Sack Race \expndtw3 was just finishing. I had a horrid presentiment that there had been more dirty work at the crossroads. The first person I ran into was \expndtw1 young Bingo. I grabbed him by the arm. \expndtw2 'Who won?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'I don't know. I didn't notice.' There was bitterness in the chappie's voice. 'It wasn't Mrs Penworthy, dash her! Bertie, that hound \expndtw4 Steggles is nothing more nor less than one of our leading snakes. I\cf0\expndtw0  \cf1\expndtw6 don't know how he heard about her, but he must have got on to it \expndtw7 that she was dangerous. Do you know what he did? He lured that \expndtw4 miserable woman into the refreshment-tent five minutes before the \expndtw7 race and brought her out so weighed down with cake and tea that \expndtw2 she blew up in the first twenty yards. Just rolled over and lay there! \expndtw3 Well, thank goodness, we still have Harold!' \expndtw5 I gaped at the poor chump. 'Harold! Haven't you heard?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Heard?' Bingo turned a delicate green. 'Heard what? I haven't \expndtw1 heard anything. I only arrived five minutes ago. Came here straight \expndtw5 from the station. What has happened? Tell me!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 I slipped him the information. He stared at me for a moment in \expndtw3 a ghastly sort of way, then with a hollow groan, tottered away and \expndtw2 was lost in the crowd. A nasty knock, poor chap. I didn't blame him \expndtw3 for being upset.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 They were clearing the decks now for the Egg and Spoon Race, \expndtw10 and I thought I might as well stay where I was and watch the \expndtw2 finish. Not that I had much hope. Young Prudence was a good \expndtw3 conversationalist, but she didn't seem to me to be the build for a \expndtw-1 winner.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw7 As far as I could see through the mob, they got off to a good \expndtw6 start. A short, red-haired child was making the running with a \expndtw1 freckled blonde second, and Sarah Mills lying up an easy third. Our nominee was straggling along with the field, well behind the leaders. \expndtw5 It was not hard even as early as this to spot the winner. There was \expndtw1 a grace, a practised precision, in the way Sarah Mills held her spoon \expndtw7 that told its own story. She was cutting out a good pace, but her \expndtw5 egg didn't even wobble. A natural egg-and-spooner, if ever there \expndtw1 was one.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 Class will tell. Thirty yards from the tape, the red-haired kid \expndtw3 tripped over her feet and shot her egg on to the turf. The freckled \expndtw5 blonde fought gamely, but she had run herself out half-way down \expndtw2 the straight, and Sarah Mills came past and home on a tight rein by \expndtw0 several lengths, a popular winner. The blonde was second. A sniffing \expndtw1 female in blue gingham beat a pie-faced kid in pink for the place-\expndtw2 money, and Prudence Baxter, Jeeves's long shot, was either fifth or \expndtw4 sixth, I couldn't see which.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 And then I was carried along with the crowd to where old Heppen\expndtw5 stall was going to present the prizes. I found myself standing next \expndtw4 to the man Steggles.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Hallo, old chap!' he said, very bright and cheery. 'You've had a \expndtw5 bad day, I'm afraid.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 I looked at him with silent scorn. Lost on the blighter, of course.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'It's not been a good meeting for any of the big punters,' he went \expndtw1 on. 'Poor old Bingo Little went down badly over that Egg and Spoon \expndtw3 Race.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 I hadn't been meaning to chat with the fellow, but I was startled.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'How do you mean badly?' I said. 'We - he only had a small bet \expndtw3 on.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'I don't know what you call small. He had thirty quid each way \expndtw4 on the Baxter kid.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 The landscape reeled before me.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'What!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Thirty quid at ten to one. I thought he must have heard some\expndtw3 thing, but apparently not. The race went by the form-book all right.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 I was trying to do sums in my head. I was just in the middle of \expndtw4 working out the syndicate's losses, when old Heppenstall's voice \expndtw2 came sort of faintly to me out of the distance. He had been pretty \expndtw7 fatherly and debonair when ladling out the prizes for the other \expndtw2 events, but now he had suddenly grown all pained and grieved. He \expndtw3 peered sorrowfully at the multitude.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'With regard to the Girls' Egg and Spoon Race, which has just \expndtw1 concluded,' he said, 'I have a painful duty to perform. Circumstances \expndtw5 have arisen which it is impossible to ignore. It is not too much to say that I am stunned.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 He gave the populace about five seconds to wonder why he was \expndtw5 stunned, then went on.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Three years ago, as you are aware, I was compelled to expunge \expndtw3 from the list of events at this annual festival the Fathers' Quarter-\expndtw1 Mile, owing to reports coming to my ears of wagers taken and given on the result at the village inn and a strong suspicion that on at least one occasion the race had actually been sold by the speediest runner. \expndtw6 That unfortunate occurrence shook my faith in human nature, I \expndtw3 admit - but still there was one event at least which I confidently \expndtw2 expected to remain untainted by the miasma of professionalism. I \expndtw4 allude to the Girls' Egg and Spoon Race. It seems, alas, that I was \expndtw3 too sanguine.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 He stopped again, and wrestled with his feelings.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'I will not weary you with the unpleasant details. I will merely say \expndtw3 that before the race was run a stranger in our midst, the manservant\cf0\expndtw0  \cf1\expndtw5 of one of the guests at the Hall - I will not specify with more \expndtw3 particularity - approached several of the competitors and presented \expndtw0 each of them with five shillings on condition that they - er - finished. \expndtw6 A belated sense of remorse has led him to confess to me what he \expndtw2 did but it is too late. The evil is accomplished, and retribution must \expndtw7 take its course. It is no time for half-measures. I must be firm. I \expndtw6 rule that Sarah Mills, Jane Parker, Bessie Clay, and Rosie Jukes, \expndtw2 the first four to pass the winning-post, have forfeited their amateur \expndtw3 status and are disqualified, and this handsome work-bag, presented \expndtw8 by Lord Wickhammersley, goes, in consequence, to Prudence \expndtw4 Baxter. Prudence, step forward!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\par
\cf1\expndtw-48\ul\b 15\expndtw0\par
\expndtw5 The Metropolitan Touch\cf0\expndtw0\ulnone\b0\par
\par
\cf1\expndtw4 Nobody is more alive than I am to the fact that young Bingo Little \expndtw2 is in many respects a sound old egg. In one way and another he has \expndtw5 made life pretty interesting for me at intervals ever since we were \expndtw2 at school. As a companion for a cheery hour I think I would choose him before anybody. On the other hand, I'm bound to say that there are things about him that could be improved. His habit of falling in \expndtw5 love with every second girl he sees is one of them; and another is \expndtw6 his way of letting the world in on the secrets of his heart. If you \expndtw4 want shrinking reticence, don't go to Bingo, because he's got about as much of it as a soap advertisement.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw7 I mean to say - well, here's the telegram I got from him one \expndtw0 evening in November, about a month after I'd got back to town from \expndtw3 my visit to Twing Hall:\cf0\expndtw0\par
\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi360\li720\ri2880\sb29\cf1\expndtw-1\i I\i0  \i say Bertie old man I am in love at last. She is the most wonderful \expndtw2 girl Bertie old man. This is the real thing at last Bertie. Come here \expndtw1 at once and bring Jeeves. Oh I say you know that tobacco shop in \expndtw-1 Bond Street on the left side as you go up. Will you get me a hundred \expndtw1 of their special cigarettes and send them to me here. I have run out. I know when you see her you will think she is the most wonderful \expndtw0 girl. Mind you bring Jeeves. Don't forget the cigarettes.\cf0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi360\li720\ri2880\sb29\qc\cf1\expndtw-3\scaps BINGO\cf0\expndtw0\scaps0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi360\ri-1800\sb29\par
\cf1\expndtw3 It had been handed in at Twing Post Office. In other words, he had submitted that frightful rot to the goggling eye of a village post\expndtw0 mistress who was probably the mainspring of local gossip and would \expndtw3 have the place ringing with the news before nightfall. He couldn't \expndtw1 have given himself away more completely if he had hired the town \expndtw4 crier. When I was a kid, I used to read stories about knights and \expndtw6 vikings and that species of chappie who would get up without a \expndtw2 blush in the middle of a crowded banquet and loose off a song about \expndtw1 how perfectly priceless they thought their best girl. I've often felt \expndtw-2 that those days would have suited young Bingo down to the ground.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 Jeeves had brought the thing in with the evening drink, and I \expndtw-1 slung it over to him.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw7 'It's about due, of course,' I said. 'Young Bingo hasn't been in \expndtw4 love for at least a couple of months. I wonder who it is this time?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Miss Mary Burgess, sir,' said Jeeves, 'the niece of the Reverend \expndtw4 Mr Heppenstall. She is staying at Twing Vicarage.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Great Scott!' I knew that Jeeves knew practically everything in \expndtw6 the world, but this sounded like second-sight. 'How do you know\cf0\expndtw0  \cf1\expndtw-1 that?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'When we were visiting Twing Hall in the summer, sir, I formed \expndtw5 a somewhat close friendship with Mr Heppenstall's butler. He is \expndtw7 good enough to keep me abreast of the local news from time to \expndtw3 time. From his account, sir, the young lady appears to be a very \expndtw2 estimable young lady. Of a somewhat serious nature, I understand. \expndtw0 Mr Little is very \i epris, \i0 sir. Brookfield, my correspondent, writes that \expndtw4 last week he observed him in the moonlight at an advanced hour \expndtw3 gazing up at his window.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Whose window! Brookfield's?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Yes, sir. Presumably under the impression that it was the young \expndtw2 lady's.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'But what the deuce is he doing at Twing at all?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Mr Little was compelled to resume his old position as tutor to Lord Wickhammersley's son at Twing Hall, sir. Owing to having \expndtw3 been unsuccessful in some speculations at Hurst Park at the end of \expndtw4 October.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Good Lord, Jeeves! Is there anything you don't know?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'I couldn't say, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 I picked up the telegram.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'I suppose he wants us to go down and help him out a bit?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'That would appear to be his motive in dispatching the message, \expndtw1 sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Well, what shall we do? Go?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'I would advocate it, sir. If I may say so, I think that Mr Little \expndtw5 should be encouraged in this particular matter.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'You think he's picked a winner this time?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'I hear nothing but excellent reports of the young lady, sir. I think \expndtw3 it is beyond question that she would be an admirable influence for \expndtw6 Mr Little, should the affair come to a happy conclusion. Such a \expndtw7 union would also, I fancy, go far to restore Mr Little to the good\cf0\expndtw0  \cf1\expndtw-5 graces of his uncle, the young lady being well connected and possess\expndtw-1 ing private means. In short, sir, I think that if there is anything that \expndtw2 we can do we should do it.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Well, with you behind him,' I said, 'I don't see how he can fail \expndtw-1 to click.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'You are very good, sir,' said Jeeves. 'The tribute is much \expndtw-1 appreciated.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 Bingo met us at Twing station next day, and insisted on my \expndtw1 sending Jeeves on in the car with the bags while he and I walked. \expndtw3 He started in about the female the moment we had begun to hoof \expndtw-7 it.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-2 'She is very wonderful, Bertie. She is not one of these flippant, \expndtw-3 shallow-minded modern girls. She is sweetly grave and beautifully \expndtw2 earnest. She reminds me of - what is the name I want?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 'Marie Lloyd?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-3 'Saint Cecilia,' said young Bingo, eyeing me with a good deal of \expndtw-1 loathing. 'She reminds me of Saint Cecilia. She makes me yearn to \expndtw3 be a better, nobler, deeper, broader man.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-3 'What beats me,' I said, following up a train of thought, 'is what \expndtw0 principle you pick them on. The girls you fall in love with, I mean. \expndtw-5 I mean to say, what's your system? As far as I can see, no two of them \expndtw-4 are alike. First it was Mabel the waitress, then Honoria Glossop, then \expndtw2 that fearful blister Charlotte Corday Rowbotham -'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 I own that Bingo had the decency to shudder. Thinking of Char\expndtw0 lotte always made me shudder, too.\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw-2 'You don't seriously mean, Bertie, that you are intending to com\expndtw0 pare the feeling I have for Mary Burgess, the holy devotion, the \expndtw7 spiritual -'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Oh, all right, let it go,' I said. 'I say, old lad, aren't we going \expndtw0 rather a long way round?'\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw-3 Considering that we were supposed to be heading for Twing Hall, \expndtw1 it seemed to me that we were making a longish job of it. The Hall is about two miles from the station by the main road, and we had \expndtw2 cut off down a lane, gone across country for a bit, climbed a stile \expndtw-3 or two, and were now working our way across a field that ended in \expndtw-1 another lane.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-3 'She sometimes takes her little brother for a walk round this way,' \expndtw-1 explained Bingo. 'I thought we would meet her and bow, and you \expndtw0 could see her, you know, and then we would walk on.'\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 'Of course,' I said, 'that's enough excitement for anyone, and undoubtedly a corking reward for tramping three miles out of one's\cf0\expndtw0  \cf1\expndtw-3 way over ploughed fields with tight boots, but don't we do anything \expndtw1 else? Don't we tack on to the girl and buzz along with her?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Good Lord!' said Bingo, honestly amazed. 'You don't suppose \expndtw0 I've got nerve enough for that, do you? I just look at her from afar \expndtw4 off and all that sort of thing. Quick! Here she comes! No, I'm \expndtw-4 wrong!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-2 It was like that song of Harry Lauder's where he's waiting for the \expndtw0 girl and says 'This is her-r-r. No, it's a rabbut.' Young Bingo made me stand there in the teeth of a nor'-east half-gale for ten minutes, \expndtw-4 keeping me on my toes with a series of false alarms, and I was just \expndtw-3 thinking of suggesting that we should lay off and give the rest of the \expndtw-2 proceedings a miss, when round the corner there came a fox-terrier, and Bingo quivered like an aspen. Then there hove in sight a small \expndtw1 boy, and he shook like a jelly. Finally, like a star whose entrance \expndtw-6 has been worked up by the \i personnel \i0 of the \i ensemble, \i0 a girl appeared, \expndtw1 and his emotion was painful to witness. His face got so red that, \expndtw-2 what with his white collar and the fact that the wind had turned his nose blue, he looked more like a French flag than anything else. He \expndtw0 sagged from the waist upwards, as if he had been filleted.\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw-4 He was just raising his fingers limply to his cap when he suddenly \expndtw1 saw that the girl wasn't alone. A chappie in clerical costume was \expndtw0 also among those present, and the sight of him didn't seem to do \expndtw-2 Bingo a bit of good. His face got redder and his nose bluer, and it \expndtw-3 wasn't till they had nearly passed that he managed to get hold of his \expndtw-7 cap.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 The girl bowed, the curate said, 'Ah, Little. Rough weather,' the \expndtw2 dog barked, and then they toddled on and the entertainment was \expndtw-8 over.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 The curate was a new factor in the situation to me. I reported his \expndtw-3 movements to Jeeves when I got to the Hall. Of course, Jeeves knew \expndtw-2 all about it already.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'That is the Reverend Mr Wingham, Mr Heppenstall's new \expndtw1 curate, \i sir. \i0 I gathered from Brookfield that he is Mr Little's rival, \expndtw3 and at the moment the young lady appears to favour him. Mr \expndtw-2 Wingham has the advantage of being on the premises. He and the \expndtw0 young lady play duets after dinner, which acts as a bond. Mr Little \expndtw-2 on these occasions, I understand, prowls about in the road, chafing \expndtw-7 visibly.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'That seems to be all the poor fish is able to do, dash it. He can \expndtw5 chafe all right, but there he stops. He's lost his pep. He's got no\cf0\expndtw0  \cf1\expndtw2 dash. Why, when we met her just now, he hadn't even the common \expndtw4 manly courage to say "Good evening"!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'I gather that Mr Little's affection is not unmingled with awe, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Well, how are we to help a man when he's such a rabbit as that? \expndtw5 Have you anything to suggest? I shall be seeing him after dinner, \expndtw4 and he's sure to ask first thing what you advise.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'In my opinion, sir, the most judicious course for Mr Little to pursue would be to concentrate on the young gentleman.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'The small brother? How do you mean?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'Make a friend of him, sir - take him for walks and so forth.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw7 'It doesn't sound one of your red-hottest ideas. I must say I \expndtw4 expected something fruitier than that.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'It would be a beginning, sir, and might lead to better things.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Well, I'll tell him. I liked the look of her, Jeeves.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'A thoroughly estimable young lady, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 I slipped Bingo the tip from the stable that night, and was glad \expndtw5 to observe that it seemed to cheer him up.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Jeeves is always right,' he said. 'I ought to have thought of it \expndtw3 myself. I'll start in tomorrow.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 It was amazing how the chappie bucked up. Long before I left for town it had become a mere commonplace for him to speak to \expndtw3 the girl. I mean he didn't simply look stuffed when they met. The \expndtw1 brother was forming a bond that was a dashed sight stronger than the \expndtw2 curate's duets. She and Bingo used to take him for walks together. I \expndtw1 asked Bingo what they talked about on these occasions, and he said \expndtw2 Wilfred's future. The girl hoped that Wilfred would one day become a curate, but Bingo said no, there was something about curates he \expndtw4 didn't quite like.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 The day we left, Bingo came to see us off with Wilfred frisking \expndtw3 about him like an old college chum. The last I saw of them, Bingo \expndtw5 was standing him chocolates out of the slot-machine. A scene of \expndtw4 peace and cheery goodwill. Dashed promising, I thought.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\par
\cf1\expndtw7 Which made it all the more of a jar, about a fortnight later, when \expndtw1 his telegram arrived. As follows:\cf0\expndtw0\par
\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi360\li720\ri2880\sb29\cf1\expndtw-3\i Bertie old man \par
I say Bertie could you possibly come down here at \expndtw-2 once. \par
Everything gone wrong hang it all. \par
Dash it Bertie you simply \expndtw1 must come. \par
I am in a state of absolute despair and heart-broken. \par
\expndtw-1 Would you mind sending another hundred of those cigarettes. \par
Bring\cf0\expndtw0\i0  \cf1\i Jeeves when you come Bertie. \par
You simply must come Bertie. \par
I rely \expndtw-1 on you. \par
Don't forget to bring Jeeves.\cf0\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi360\li720\ri2880\sb29\qc\cf1\expndtw7\scaps BINGO.\cf0\expndtw0\scaps0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi360\ri-1800\sb29\par
\cf1\expndtw8 For a chap who's perpetually hard-up, I must say that young \expndtw3 Bingo is the most wasteful telegraphist I ever struck. He's got no \expndtw4 notion of condensing. The silly ass simply pours out his wounded soul at twopence a word, or whatever it is, without a thought.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'How about it, Jeeves?' I said. Tm getting a bit fed. I can't go chucking all my engagements every second week in order to biff \expndtw0 down to Twing and rally round young Bingo. Send him a wire telling \expndtw5 him to end it all in the village pond.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'If you could spare me for the night, sir, I should be glad to run \expndtw2 down and investigate.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw8 'Oh, dash it! Well, I suppose there's nothing else to be done. \expndtw4 After all, you're the fellow he wants. All right, carry on.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 Jeeves got back late the next day.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Well?' I said.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 Jeeves appeared perturbed. He allowed his left eyebrow to flicker \expndtw5 upwards in a concerned sort of manner.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'I have done what I could, sir,' he said, 'but I fear Mr Little's \expndtw2 chances do not appear bright. Since our last visit, sir, there has been \expndtw4 a decidedly sinister and disquieting development.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Oh, what's that?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw9 'You may remember Mr Steggles, sir - the young gentleman \expndtw3 who was studying for an examination with Mr Heppenstall at the \expndtw-3 Vicarage?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'What's Steggles got to do with it?' I asked.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'I gather from Brookfield, sir, who chanced to overhear a conver\expndtw4 sation, that Mr Steggles is interesting himself in the affair.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Good Lord! What, making a book on it?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw7 'I understand that he is accepting wagers from those in his \expndtw2 immediate circle, sir. Against Mr Little, whose chances he does not \expndtw3 seem to fancy.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'I don't like that, Jeeves.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'No, sir. It is sinister.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'From what I know of Steggles there will be dirty work.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'It has already occurred, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 'Already?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Yes, sir. It seems that, in pursuance of the policy which he has \expndtw2 been good enough to allow me to suggest to him, Mr Little escorted\cf0\expndtw0  \cf1\expndtw5 Master Burgess to the church \i bazaar, \i0 and there met Mr Steggles, \expndtw1 who was in the company of young Master Heppenstall, the Reverend \expndtw2 Mr HeppenstalPs second son, who is home from Rugby just now, having recently recovered from an attack of mumps. The encounter \expndtw3 took place in the refreshment-room, where Mr Steggles was at that moment entertaining Master Heppenstall. To cut a long story short, \expndtw2 sir, the two gentlemen became extremely interested in the hearty manner in which the lads were fortifying themselves; and Mr Steggles offered to back his nominee in a weight-for-age eating contest \expndtw6 against Master Burgess for a pound a side. Mr Little admitted to \expndtw7 me that he was conscious of a certain hesitation as to what the \expndtw2 upshot might be, should Miss Burgess get to hear of the matter, but \expndtw7 his sporting blood was too much for him and he agreed to the \expndtw2 contest. This was duly carried out, both lads exhibiting the utmost \expndtw1 willingness and enthusiasm, and eventually Master Burgess justified \expndtw3 Mr Little's confidence by winning, but only after a bitter struggle. \expndtw2 Next day both contestants were in considerable pain; inquiries were made and confessions extorted, and Mr Little -1 learn from Brook-field, who happened to be near the door of the drawing-room at the \expndtw5 moment - had an extremely unpleasant interview with the young \expndtw2 lady, which ended in her desiring him never to speak to her again.' \expndtw3 There's no getting away from the fact that, if ever a man required \expndtw1 watching, it's Steggles. Machiavelli could have taken his correspon\expndtw3 dence course.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'It was a put-up job, Jeeves!' I said. 'I mean, Steggles worked the \expndtw5 whole thing on purpose. It's his old nobbling game.'\par
'\expndtw7 There would seem to be no doubt about that, sir.'\par
'\expndtw4 Well, he seems to have dished poor old Bingo all right.'\par
'\expndtw5 That is the prevalent opinion, sir. Brookfield tells me that down \expndtw7 in the village at the Cow and Horses seven to one is being freely \expndtw5 offered on Mr Wingham and finding no takers.'\par
'\expndtw4 Good Lord! Are they betting about it down in the village, too?'\par
'\expndtw8 Yes, sir. And in adjoining hamlets also. The affair has caused \expndtw1 widespread interest. I am told that there is a certain sporting reaction \expndtw4 in even so distant a spot as Lower Bingley.'\par
'\expndtw5 Well, I don't see what there is to do. If Bingo is such a chump -'\par
'\expndtw9 One is fighting a losing battle, I fear, sir, but I did venture to \expndtw1 indicate to Mr Little a course of action which might prove of advan\expndtw4 tage. I recommended him to busy himself with good works.'\par
'\expndtw3 Good works?'\par
'\expndtw6 About the village, sir. Reading to the bedridden - chatting with \expndtw4 the sick - that sort of thing, sir. We can but trust that good results \expndtw3 will ensue.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'Yes, I suppose so,' I said doubtfully. 'But, by gosh, if I was a sick \expndtw1 man I'd hate to have a loony like young Bingo coming and gibbering \expndtw4 at my bedside.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 There \i is \i0 that aspect of the matter, sir,' said Jeeves.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\par
\cf1\expndtw6 I didn't hear a word from Bingo for a couple of weeks, and I took \expndtw3 it after while that he had found the going too hard and had chucked \expndtw2 in the towel. And then, one night not long before Christmas, I came \expndtw0 back to the flat pretty latish, having been out dancing at the Embassy. \expndtw3 I was fairly tired, having swung a practically non-stop shoe from \expndtw5 shortly after dinner till two \scaps am, \scaps0 and bed seemed to be indicated. Judge of my chagrin and all that sort of thing, therefore, when, \expndtw1 tottering to my room and switching on the light, I observed the foul \expndtw7 features of young Bingo all over the pillow. The blighter had \expndtw2 appeared from nowhere and was in my bed, sleeping like an infant \expndtw4 with a sort of happy, dreamy smile on his map.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 A bit thick I mean to say! We Woosters are all for the good old \expndtw2 medieval hosp. and all that, but when it comes to finding chappies collaring your bed, the thing becomes a trifle too mouldy. I hove a \expndtw4 shoe, and Bingo sat up, gurgling.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 ''s matter? 's matter?' said young Bingo.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'What the deuce are you doing in my bed?' I said.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Oh, hallo, Bertie! So there you are!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Yes, here I am. What are you doing in my bed?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'I came up to town for the night on business.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Yes, but what are you doing in my bed?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Dash it all, Bertie,' said young Bingo querulously, 'don't keep \expndtw4 harping on your beastly bed. There's another made up in the spare \expndtw2 room. I saw Jeeves make it with my own eyes. I believe he meant it \expndtw7 for me, but I knew what a perfect host you were, so I just turned \expndtw4 in here. I say, Bertie, old man,' said Bingo, apparently fed up with the discussion about sleeping-quarters, 'I see daylight.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Well, it's getting on for three in the morning.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'I was speaking figuratively, you ass. I meant that hope has begun to dawn. About Mary Burgess, you know. Sit down and I'll tell you \expndtw3 all about it.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'I won't. I'm going to sleep.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'To begin with,' said young Bingo, settling himself comfortably \expndtw0 against the pillows and helping himself to a cigarette from my private\cf0  \cf1\expndtw1 box, 'I must once again pay a marked tribute to good old Jeeves. A \expndtw2 modern Solomon. I was badly up against it when I came to him for \expndtw8 advice, but he rolled up with a tip which has put me - I use the \expndtw0 term advisedly and in a conservative spirit - on velvet. He may have \expndtw2 told you that he recommended me to win back the lost ground by \expndtw-1 busying myself with good works? Bertie, old man,' said young Bingo \expndtw4 earnestly, 'for the last two weeks I've been comforting the sick to \expndtw6 such an extent that, if I had a brother and you brought him to me on a sick-bed at this moment, by Jove, old man, I'd heave a brick \expndtw5 at him. However, though it took it out of me like the deuce, the scheme worked splendidly. She softened visibly before I'd been at \expndtw4 it a week. Started to bow again when we met in the street, and so \expndtw6 forth. About a couple of days ago she distinctly smiled - in a sort \expndtw5 of faint, saint-like kind of way, you know - when I ran into her \expndtw6 outside the Vicarage. And yesterday - I say, you remember that \expndtw3 curate chap, Wingham? Fellow with a long nose.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Of course I remember him. Your rival.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 'Rival?' Bingo raised his eyebrows. 'Oh, well, I suppose you could \expndtw6 have called him that at one time. Though it sounds a little far\expndtw3 fetched.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'Does it?' I said, stung by the sickening complacency of the \expndtw3 chump's manner. 'Well, let me tell you that the last I heard was that \expndtw6 at the Cow and Horses in Twing village and all over the place as \expndtw2 far as Lower Bingley they were offering seven to one on the curate \expndtw4 and finding no takers.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 Bingo started violently and sprayed cigarette-ash all over my bed.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Betting!' he gargled. 'Betting! You don't mean that they're betting \expndtw6 on this holy, sacred ... Oh, I say, dash it all! Haven't people any \expndtw1 sense of decency and reverence? Is nothing safe from their beastly, sordid graspingness? I wonder,' said young Bingo thoughtfully, 'if \expndtw6 there's a chance of my getting any of that seven-to-one money? \expndtw3 Seven to one! What a price! Who's offering it, do you know? Oh, \expndtw6 well, I suppose it wouldn't do. No, I suppose it wouldn't be quite \expndtw5 the thing.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'You seem, dashed confident,' I said. 'I'd always thought that \expndtw12 Wingham -'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Oh, I'm not worried about him,' said Bingo. 'I was just going to \expndtw2 tell you. Wingham's got the mumps, and won't be out and about for weeks. And, jolly as that is in itself, it's not all. You see, he was \expndtw6 producing the Village School Christmas Entertainment, and now \expndtw9 I've taken over the job. I went to old Heppenstall last night and\cf0\expndtw0  \cf1\expndtw4 clinched the contract. Well, you see what that means. It means that I shall be absolutely the centre of the village life and thought for \expndtw0 three solid weeks, with a terrific triumph to wind up with. Everybody \expndtw6 looking up to me and fawning on me, don't you see, and all that. \expndtw5 It's bound to have a powerful effect on Mary's mind. It will show \expndtw0 her that I am capable of serious effort; that there is a solid foundation \expndtw4 of worth in me; that, mere butterfly as she may once have thought \expndtw9 me, I am in reality -'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Oh, all right, let it go!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'It's a big thing, you know, this Christmas Entertainment. Old \expndtw2 Heppenstall is very much wrapped up in it. Nibs from all over the \expndtw0 countryside rolling up. The Squire present, with family. A big chance \expndtw8 for me, Bertie, my boy, and I mean to make the most of it. Of \expndtw5 course, I'm handicapped a bit by not having been in on the thing \expndtw3 from the start. Will you credit it that that uninspired doughnut of a \expndtw5 curate wanted to give the public some rotten little fairy play out of \expndtw0 a book for children published about fifty years ago without one good \expndtw2 laugh or the semblance of a gag in it? It's too late to alter the thing \expndtw3 entirely, but at least I can jazz it up. I'm going to write them in \expndtw5 something zippy to brighten the thing up a bit.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'You can't write.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw7 'Well, when I say write, I mean pinch. That's why I've popped \expndtw-1 up to town. I've been to see that revue, \i Cuddle Up! \i0 at the Palladium, \expndtw2 tonight. Full of good stuff. Of course, it's rather hard to get anything in \expndtw3 the nature of a big spectacular effect in the Twing Village Hall, \expndtw1 with no scenery to speak of and a chorus of practically imbecile kids \expndtw6 of ages ranging from nine to fourteen, but I think I see my way. \expndtw5 Have you seen \i Cuddle UpF\cf0\expndtw0\i0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Yes. Twice.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'Well, there's some good stuff in the first act, and I can lift \expndtw4 practically all the numbers. Then there's that show at the Palace. I \expndtw2 can see the \i matinee \i0 of that tomorrow before I leave. There's sure to \expndtw6 be some decent bits in that. Don't you worry about my not being \expndtw3 able to write a hit. Leave it to me, laddie, leave it to me. And now, \expndtw0 my dear old chap,' said young Bingo, snuggling down cosily, 'you \expndtw5 mustn't keep me up talking all night. It's all right for you fellows \expndtw2 who have nothing to do, but I'm a busy man. Good night, old thing. Close the door quietly after you and switch out the light. Breakfast, \expndtw5 about ten tomorrow, I suppose, what? Right-o. Good night.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\par
\cf1\expndtw8 For the next three weeks I didn't see Bingo. He became a sort of\cf0\expndtw0  \cf1\expndtw3 Voice Heard Off, developing a habit of ringing me up on long\expndtw2 distance and consulting me on various points arising at rehearsal, until the day when he got me out of bed at eight in the morning to \expndtw-1 ask whether I thought \i Merry Christmas! \i0 was a good tide. I told him \expndtw5 then that this nuisance must now cease, and after that he cheesed \expndtw3 it, and practically passed out of my life, till one afternoon when I got back to the flat to dress for dinner and found Jeeves inspecting \expndtw2 a whacking big poster sort of thing which he had draped over the back of an armchair.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Good Lord, Jeeves!' I said. I was feeling rather weak that day, \expndtw4 and the thing shook me. 'What on earth's that?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Mr Little sent it to me, sir, and desired me to bring it to your \expndtw1 notice.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Well, you've certainly done it!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 I took another look at the object. There was no doubt about it, \expndtw2 he caught the eye. It was about seven feet long, and most of the \expndtw3 lettering in about as bright red ink as I ever struck.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 This was how it ran:\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi360\ri-1800\sb29\qc\cf1\expndtw4\i Twing Village Hall,\cf0\expndtw0\i0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 Friday, December 23rd,\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-3\i Richard Little\cf0\expndtw0\i0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 presents \expndtw0 A New and Original Revue\cf0\par
\cf1 Entitled \expndtw4\ul\i What Ho, Twing!!\cf0\expndtw0\ulnone\i0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 Book by \expndtw-5\i Richard Little\cf0\expndtw0\i0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 Lyrics by \expndtw-5\i Richard Little\cf0\expndtw0\i0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 Music by \expndtw-5\i Richard Little\cf0\expndtw0\i0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 With the Full Twing Juvenile\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 Company and Chorus.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 Scenic Effects by\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-3\i Richard Little\cf0\expndtw0\i0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 Produced by\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-3\i Richard Little\cf0\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi360\ri-1800\sb29\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'What do you make of it, Jeeves?' I said.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'I confess I am a little doubtful, sir. I think Mr Little would have\cf0\expndtw0  \cf1\expndtw-1 done better to follow my advice and confine himself to good works \expndtw1 about the village.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'You think the thing will be a frost?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'I could not hazard a conjecture, sir. But my experience has been \expndtw2 that what pleases the London public is not always so acceptable to \expndtw4 the rural mind. The metropolitan touch sometimes proves a trifle \expndtw2 too exotic for the provinces.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'I suppose I ought to go down and see the dashed thing?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'I think Mr Little would be wounded were you not present, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 The Village Hall at Twing is a smallish building, smelling of apples. \expndtw3 It was full when I turned up on the evening of the twenty-third, for \expndtw2 I had purposely timed myself to arrive not long before the kick-off. \expndtw1 I had had experience of one or two of these binges, and didn't want \expndtw-1 to run any risk of coming early and finding myself shoved into a seat \expndtw0 in one of the front rows where I wouldn't be able to execute a quiet \expndtw2 sneak into the open air half-way through the proceedings, if the \expndtw3 occasion seemed to demand it. I secured a nice strategic position \expndtw4 near the door at the back of the hall.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 From where I stood I had a good view of the audience. As always on these occasions, the first few rows were occupied by the Nibs -consisting of the Squire, a fairly mauve old sportsman with white whiskers, his family, a platoon of local parsons and perhaps a couple \expndtw2 of dozen of prominent pew-holders. Then came a dense squash of \expndtw-1 what you might call the lower middle classes. And at the back, where \expndtw0 I was, we came down with a jerk in the social scale, this end of the \expndtw-1 hall being given up almost entirely to a collection of frankly Tough Eggs, who had rolled up not so much for any love of the drama as \expndtw1 because there was a free tea after the show. Take it for all in all, a representative gathering of Twing life and thought. The Nibs were \expndtw2 whispering in a pleased manner to each other, the Lower Middles \expndtw3 were sitting up very straight, as if they'd been bleached, and the \expndtw-1 Tough Eggs whiled away the time by cracking nuts and exchanging low rustic wheezes. The girl, Mary Burgess, was at the piano playing \expndtw-2 a waltz. Beside her stood the curate, Wingham, apparently recovered. \expndtw1 The temperature, I should think, was about a hundred and twenty-\expndtw-4 seven.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 Somebody jabbed me heartily in the lower ribs, and I perceived the man Steggles.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Hallo!' he said. 'I didn't know you were coming down.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 I didn't like the chap, but we Woosters can wear the mask. I \expndtw4 beamed a bit.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Oh, yes,' I said. 'Bingo wanted me to roll up and see his show.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'I hear he's giving us something pretty ambitious,' said the man \expndtw4 Steggles. 'Big effects and all that sort of thing.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'I believe so.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Of course, it means a lot to him, doesn't it? He's told you about \expndtw3 the girl, of course?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Yes. And I hear you're laying seven to one against him,' I said, \expndtw3 eyeing the blighter a trifle austerely.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 He didn't even quiver.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Just a little flutter to relieve the monotony of country life,' he \expndtw4 said. 'But you've got the facts a bit wrong. It's down in the village \expndtw1 that they're laying seven to one. I can do you better than that, if you \expndtw6 feel in a speculative mood. How about a tenner at a hundred to \expndtw-1 eight?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Good Lord! Are you giving that?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'Yes. Somehow,' said Steggles meditatively, 'I have a sort of feel\expndtw7 ing, a kind of premonition that something's going to go wrong \expndtw1 tonight. You know what Little is. A bungler, if ever there was one. \expndtw3 Something tells me that this show of his is going to be a frost. And if it is, of course, I should think it would prejudice the girl against him pretty badly. His standing always was rather shaky.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Are you going to try and smash up the show?' I said sternly.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Me!' said Steggles. 'Why, what could I do? Half a minute, I want \expndtw6 to go and speak to a man.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 He buzzed off, leaving me distinctly disturbed. I could see from \expndtw1 the fellow's eye that he was meditating some of his customary rough \expndtw7 stuff, and I thought Bingo ought to be warned. But there wasn't \expndtw4 time and I couldn't get at him. Almost immediately after Steggles \expndtw5 had left me the curtain went up.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 Except as a prompter, Bingo wasn't much in evidence in the early \expndtw3 part of the performance. The thing at the outset was merely one of \expndtw2 those weird dramas which you dig out of books published around \expndtw-3 Christmas time and entitled \i Twelve Little Plays for the Tots, \i0 or some\expndtw3 thing like that. The kids drooled on in the usual manner, the boom\expndtw2 ing voice of Bingo ringing out from time to time behind the scenes when the fatheads forgot their lines; and the audience was settling down into the sort of torpor usual on these occasions, when the first of Bingo's interpolated bits occurred. It was that number which \expndtw11 What's-her-name sings in that revue at the Palace - you would\cf0\expndtw0  \cf1\expndtw4 recognize the tune if I hummed it, but I can never get hold of the \expndtw2 dashed thing. It always got three encores at the Palace, and it went \expndtw1 well now, even with a squeaky-voiced child jumping on and off the \expndtw2 key like a chamois of the Alps leaping from crag to crag. Even the \expndtw6 Tough Eggs liked it. At the end of the second refrain the entire \expndtw1 house was shouting for an encore, and the kid with the voice like a \expndtw4 slate-pencil took a deep breath and started to let it go once more. At this point all the lights went out.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\par
\cf1\expndtw5 I don't know when I've had anything so sudden and devastating \expndtw4 happen to me before. They didn't flicker. They just went out. The \expndtw3 hall was in complete darkness.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 Well, of course, that sort of broke the spell, as you might put it. \expndtw6 People started to shout directions, and the Tough Eggs stamped \expndtw7 their feet and settled down for a pleasant time. And, of course, \expndtw1 young Bingo had to make an ass of himself. His voice suddenly shot \expndtw5 at us out of the darkness.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw9 'Ladies and gentlemen, something has gone wrong with the \expndtw12 lights -'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 The Tough Eggs were tickled by this bit of information straight \expndtw4 from the stable. They took it up as a sort of battle-cry. Then, after about five minutes, the lights went up again, and the show was \expndtw2 resumed.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 It took ten minutes after that to get the audience back into its state \expndtw-2 of coma, but eventually they began to settle down, and everything was \expndtw1 going nicely when a small boy with a face like a turbot edged out in \expndtw3 front of the curtain, which had been lowered after a pretty painful \expndtw4 scene about a wishing-ring or a fairy's curse or somediing of that sort, and started to sing that song of George Thingummy's out of \expndtw2\i Cuddle Up! \i0 You know the one I mean. 'Always Listen to Mother, \expndtw3 Girls!' it's called, and he gets the audience to join in and sing the \expndtw4 refrain. Quite a ripeish ballad, and one which I myself have fre\expndtw1 quently sung in my badi with not a little vim; but by no means - as anyone but a perfect sapheaded prune like young Bingo would have \expndtw4 known - by no means the sort of thing for a children's Christmas \expndtw2 entertainment in the old village hall. Right from the start of the first \expndtw4 refrain the bulk of the audience had begun to stiffen in their seats \expndtw-1 and fan themselves, and the Burgess girl at the piano was accompany\expndtw6 ing in a stunned, mechanical sort of way, while the curate at her \expndtw1 side averted his gaze in a pained manner. The Tough Eggs, however, \expndtw3 were all for it.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 At the end of the second refrain the kid stopped and began to \expndtw-2 sidle towards the wings. Upon which the following brief duologue \expndtw-4 took place:\cf0\expndtw0  \par
\cf1\expndtw-2\scaps YOUNG BINGO \i\scaps0 (Voice heard, off, ringing against the rafters): \i0 'Go on!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2\scaps THE KID \i\scaps0 (coyly): \i0 'I don't like to.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-3\scaps YOUNG BINGO \i\scaps0 (still louder): \i0 'Go on, you little blighter, or I'll slay \expndtw-4 you!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\par
\cf1\expndtw-3 I suppose the kid thought it over swiftly and realized that Bingo, \expndtw-2 being in a position to get at him, had better be conciliated, whatever the harvest might be; for he shuffled down to the front and, having \expndtw0 shut his eyes and giggled hysterically, said: 'Ladies and gentlemen, \expndtw1 I will now call upon Squire Tressidder to oblige by singing the \expndtw-2 refrain!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 You know, with the most charitable feelings towards him, there \expndtw-1 are moments when you can't help thinking that young Bingo ought to be in some sort of a home. I suppose, poor fish, he had pictured \expndtw3 this as the big punch of the evening. He had imagined, I take it, \expndtw-3 that the Squire would spring jovially to his feet, rip the song off his chest, and all would be gaiety and mirth. Well, what happened was \expndtw0 simply that old Tressidder - and, mark you, I'm not blaming him -\expndtw-3 just sat where he was, swelling and turning a brighter purple every \expndtw-4 second. The lower middle classes remained in frozen silence, waiting \expndtw2 for the roof to fall. The only section of the audience'that really \expndtw-3 seemed to enjoy the idea was the Tough Eggs, who yelled with \expndtw0 enthusiasm. It was jam for the Tough Eggs.\cf0\par
\cf1 And then the lights went out again.\cf0\par
\par
\cf1\expndtw-2 When they went up, some minutes later, they disclosed the Squire \expndtw-4 marching stiffly out at the head of his family, fed up to the eyebrows; \expndtw0 the Burgess girl at the piano with a pale, set look; and the curate \expndtw-4 gazing at her with something in his expression that seemed to suggest \expndtw-2 that, although all this was no doubt deplorable, he had spotted the \expndtw-5 silver lining.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-2 The show went on once more. There were great chunks of Plays-\expndtw0 for-the-Tots dialogue, and then the girl at the piano struck up the prelude to that Orange-Girl number that's the big hit of the Palace \expndtw-2 revue. I took it that this was to be Bingo's smashing act one finale. \expndtw-1 The entire company was on the stage, and a clutching hand had appeared round the edge of the curtain, ready to pull at the right moment. It looked like the finale all right. It wasn't long before I \expndtw0 realized that it was something more. It was the finish.\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 I take it you know that Orange number at the Palace? It goes:\cf0\expndtw0\par
\par
\cf1\expndtw-1\i Oh, won't you something something oranges,\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-11 My something oranges,\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-11 My something oranges;\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-10 Oh, won't you something something something I forget, \par
Something something something tumty tumty yet: \expndtw21 Oh-\cf0\expndtw0\par
\i0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 or words to that effect. It's a dashed clever lyric, and the tune's \expndtw2 good, too; but the thing that made the number was the business \expndtw-4 where the girls take oranges out of their baskets, you know, and toss \expndtw-2 them lightly to the audience. I don't know if you've ever noticed it, \expndtw-4 but it always seems to tickle an audience to bits when they get things \expndtw0 thrown at them from the stage. Every time I've been to the Palace \expndtw-1 the customers have simply gone wild over this number.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-4 But at the Palace, of course, the oranges are made of yellow wool, \expndtw2 and the girls don't so much chuck them as drop them limply into \expndtw0 the first and second rows. I began to gather that the business was \expndtw-1 going to be treated rather differently tonight when a dashed great \expndtw-3 chunk of pips and mildew sailed past my ear and burst on the wall \expndtw3 behind me. Another landed with a squelch on the neck of one of \expndtw0 the Nibs in the third row. And then a third took me right on the tip \expndtw-3 of the nose, and I kind of lost interest in the proceedings for a while.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 When I had scrubbed my face and got my eye to stop watering \expndtw-1 for a moment, I saw that the evening's entertainment had begun to \expndtw1 resemble one of Belfast's livelier nights. The air was thick with \expndtw-3 shrieks and fruit. The kids on the stage, with Bingo buzzing distractedly to and fro in their midst, were having the time of their lives. I \expndtw0 suppose they realized that this couldn't go on for ever, and were \expndtw1 making the most of their chances. The Tough Eggs had begun to pick up all the oranges that hadn't burst and were shooting them \expndtw2 back, so that the audience got it both coming and going. In fact, \expndtw-1 take it all round, there was a certain amount of confusion; and, just \expndtw1 as things had begun really to hot up, out went the lights again.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 It seemed to me about my time for leaving, so I slid for the door. \expndtw-1 I was hardly outside when the audience began to stream out. They \expndtw1 surged about me in twos and threes, and I've never seen a public \expndtw5 body so dashed unanimous on any point. To a man - and to a \expndtw0 woman - they were cursing poor old Bingo; and there was a large \expndtw-3 and rapidly growing school of thought which held that the best thing\cf0\expndtw0  \cf1\expndtw4 to do would be to waylay him as he emerged and splash him about \expndtw3 in the village pond a bit.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 There were such a dickens of a lot of these enthusiasts and they \expndtw1 looked so jolly determined that it seemed to me that the only matey thing to do was to go behind and warn young Bingo to turn his coat-\expndtw4 collar up and breeze off snakily by some side exit. I went behind, \expndtw1 and found him sitting on a box in the wings, perspiring pretty freely \expndtw5 and looking more or less like the spot marked with a cross where \expndtw3 the accident happened. His hair was standing up and his ears were hanging down, and one harsh word would undoubtedly have made \expndtw4 him burst into tears.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Bertie,' he said hollowly, as he saw me, 'it was that blighter \expndtw3 Steggles! I caught one of the kids before he could get away and got \expndtw4 it all out of him. Steggles substituted real oranges for the balls of \expndtw1 wool which with infinite sweat and at a cost of nearly a quid I had \expndtw2 specially prepared. Well, I will now proceed to tear him limb from \expndtw5 limb. It'll be something to do.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 I hated to spoil his day-dreams, but it had to be.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'Good heavens, man,' I said, 'you haven't time for frivolous amuse\expndtw4 ments now. You've got to get out. And quick!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Bertie,' said Bingo in a dull voice, 'she was here just now. She \expndtw1 said it was all my fault and that she would never speak to me again. \expndtw2 She said she had always suspected me of being a heartless practical \expndtw3 joker, and now she knew. She said - Oh, well, she ticked me off \expndtw1 properly.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'That's the least of your troubles,' I said. It seemed impossible to \expndtw5 rouse the poor zib to a sense of his position. 'Do you realize that about two hundred of Twing's heftiest are waiting for you outside \expndtw4 to chuck you into the pond?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'No!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 'Absolutely!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 For a moment the poor chap seemed crushed. But only for a \expndtw2 moment. There has always been something of the good old English \expndtw1 bulldog breed about Bingo. A strange, sweet smile flickered for an \expndtw3 instant over his face.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw7 'It's all right,' he said. 'I can sneak out through the cellar and \expndtw4 climb over the wall at the back. They can't intimidate \i me\\'\cf0\expndtw0\i0\par
\par
\cf1\expndtw3 It couldn't have been more than a week later when Jeeves, after he \expndtw6 had brought me my tea, gently steered me away from the sporting\cf0\expndtw0  \cf1 page of the \i Morning Post \i0 and directed my attention to an announce\expndtw4 ment in the engagements and marriages column.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 It was a brief statement that a marriage had been arranged and \expndtw8 would shortly take place between the Hon. and Rev. Hubert \expndtw5 Wingham, third son of the Right Hon. the Earl of Sturridge, and Mary, only daughter of the late Matthew Burgess, of Weatherly Court, Hants.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Of course,' I said, after I had given it the east-to-west, 'I expected this, Jeeves.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Yes, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'She would never forgive him what happened that night.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'No, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Well,' I said, as I took a sip of the fragrant and steaming, 'I don't \expndtw5 suppose it will take old Bingo long to get over it. It's about the \expndtw3 hundred and eleventh time this sort of thing has happened to him. \expndtw6 You're the man I'm sorry for.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Me, sir?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Well, dash it all, you can't have forgotten what a deuce of a lot \expndtw2 of trouble you took to bring the thing off for Bingo. It's too bad that \expndtw3 all your work should have been wasted.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Not entirely wasted, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Eh?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'It is true that my efforts to bring about the match between Mr \expndtw2 Little and the young lady were not successful, but I still look back \expndtw5 upon the matter with a certain satisfaction.'"\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Because you did your best, you mean?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Not entirely, sir, though of course that thought also gives me \expndtw5 pleasure. I was alluding more particularly to the fact that I found \expndtw2 the affair financially remunerative.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Financially remunerative? What do you mean?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'When I learned that Mr Steggles had interested himself in the \expndtw1 contest, sir, I went shares with my friend Brookfield and bought the \expndtw2 book which had been made on the issue by the landlord of the Cow \expndtw4 and Horses. It has proved a highly profitable investment. Your \expndtw0 breakfast will be ready almost immediately, sir. Kidneys on toast and \expndtw4 mushrooms. I will bring it when you ring.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\par
\cf1\expndtw-36\ul\b 16\expndtw0\par
\expndtw-4 The Delayed Exit of Claude and \expndtw-11 Eustace\cf0\expndtw0\ulnone\b0\par
\par
\cf1\expndtw4 The feeling I had when Aunt Agatha trapped me in my lair that morning and spilled the bad news was that my luck had broken at \expndtw3 last. As a rule, you see, I'm not lugged into Family Rows. On the \expndtw2 occasions when Aunt is calling to Aunt like mastodons bellowing \expndtw5 across primeval swamps and Uncle James's letter about Cousin \expndtw3 Mabel's peculiar behaviour is being shot round the family circle \expndtw2 ('Please read this carefully and send it on to Jane'), the clan has a \expndtw6 tendency to ignore me. It's one of the advantages I get from being \expndtw1 a bachelor - and, according to my nearest and dearest, practically a \expndtw2 half-witted bachelor at that. 'It's no good trying to get Bertie to take \expndtw5 the slightest interest' is more or less the slogan, and I'm bound to \expndtw6 say I'm all for it. A quiet life is what I like. And that's why I felt \expndtw2 that the Curse had come upon me, so to speak, when Aunt Agatha \expndtw0 sailed into my sitting-room while I was having a placid cigarette and \expndtw5 started to tell me about Claude and Eustace.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Thank goodness,' said Aunt Agatha, 'arrangements have at last \expndtw6 been made about Eustace and Claude.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Arrangements?' I said, not having the foggiest.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'They sail on Friday for South Africa. Mr Van Alstyne, a friend \expndtw2 of poor Emily's, has given them berths in his firm at Johannesburg, \expndtw4 and we are hoping that they will settle down there and do well.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 I didn't get the thing at all.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Friday? The day after tomorrow, do you mean?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Yes.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'For South Africa?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Yes. They leave on the \i Edinburgh Castle'\cf0\expndtw0\i0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'But what's the idea? I mean, aren't they in the middle of their \expndtw4 term at Oxford?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 Aunt Agatha looked at me coldly.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Do you positively mean to tell me, Bertie, that you take so little\cf0\expndtw0  \cf1\expndtw-3 interest in the affairs of your nearest relatives that you are not aware that Claude and Eustace were expelled from Oxford over a fortnight \expndtw-8 ago?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-2 'No, really?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'You are hopeless, Bertie. I should have thought that even you -'\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 'Why were they sent down?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'They poured lemonade on the Junior Dean of their college ... \expndtw1 I see nothing amusing in the outrage, Bertie.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-2 'No, no, rather not,' I said hurriedly. 'I wasn't laughing. Choking. \expndtw0 Got something stuck in my throat, you know.'\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw-2 'Poor Emily,' went on Aunt Agatha, 'being one of those doting \expndtw-1 mothers who are the ruin of their children, wished to keep the boys \expndtw2 in London. She suggested that they might cram for the Army. But \expndtw0 I was firm. The Colonies are the only place for wild youths like \expndtw-3 Eustace and Claude. So they sail on Friday. They have been staying \expndtw1 for the last two weeks with your Uncle Clive in Worcestershire. \expndtw-2 They will spend tomorrow night in London and catch the boat-train \expndtw0 on Friday morning.'\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Bit risky, isn't it? I mean, aren't they apt to cut loose a bit \expndtw0 tomorrow night if they're left all alone in London?'\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'They will not be left alone. They will be in your charge.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Mine!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-2 'Yes. I wish you to put them up in your flat for the night, and see \expndtw2 that they do not miss the train in the morning.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Oh, I say, no!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'Bertie!'\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw-2 'Well, I mean, quite jolly coves both of them, but I don't know. \expndtw6 They're rather nuts, you know... Always glad to see them, of \expndtw3 course, but when it comes to putting them up for the night -'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Bertie, if you are so sunk in callous self-indulgence that you \expndtw-2 cannot even put yourself to this trifling inconvenience for the sake \expndtw37 of-'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Oh, all right,' I said. 'All right.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-4 It was no good arguing, of course. Aunt Agatha always makes me \expndtw1 feel as if I had gelatine where my spine ought to be. She's one of \expndtw-1 those forceful females. I should think Queen Elizabeth I must have been something like her. When she holds me with her glittering eye and says, 'Jump to it, my lad', or words to that effect, I make it so without further discussion.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 When she had gone, I rang for Jeeves to break the news to him.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw7 'Oh, Jeeves,' I said, 'Mr Claude and Mr Eustace will be staying \expndtw4 here tomorrow night.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Very good, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'I'm glad you think so. To me the outlook seems black and scaly. You know what those two lads are!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Very high-spirited young gentlemen, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Blisters, Jeeves. Undeniable blisters. It's a bit thick!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Would there by anything further, sir?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 At that, I'm bound to say, I drew myself up a trifle haughtily. We Woosters freeze like the dickens when we seek sympathy and meet \expndtw5 with cold reserve. I knew what was up, of course. For the last day \expndtw4 or so there had been a certain amount of coolness in the home over \expndtw3 a pair of jazzy spats which I had dug up while exploring in the \expndtw5 Burlington Arcade. Some dashed brainy cove, probably the chap \expndtw2 who invented those coloured cigarette-cases, had recently had the rather topping idea of putting out a line of spats on the same system. \expndtw3 I mean to say, instead of the ordinary grey and white, you can now \expndtw2 get them in your regimental or school colours. And, believe me, it would have taken a chappie of stronger fibre than I am to resist the \expndtw6 pair of Old Etonian spats which had smiled up at me from inside \expndtw4 the window. I was inside the shop, opening negotiations, before it \expndtw2 had even occurred to me that Jeeves might not approve. And I must \expndtw4 say he had taken the thing a bit hardly. The fact of the matter is, \expndtw1 Jeeves, though in many ways the best valet in London, is too con\expndtw2 servative. Hide-bound, if you know what I mean, and an enemy to \expndtw1 Progress.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Nothing further, Jeeves,' I said, with quiet dignity.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Very good, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 He gave one frosty look at the spats and biffed off. Dash him!\cf0\expndtw0\par
\par
\cf1\expndtw3 Anything merrier and brighter than the Twins, when they curvetted \expndtw6 into the old flat while I was dressing for dinner the next night, I \expndtw5 have never struck in my whole puff. I'm only about half a dozen years older than Claude and Eustace, but in some rummy manner they always make me feel as if I were well on in the grandfather \expndtw0 class and just waiting for the end. Almost before I realized they were \expndtw4 in the place, they had collared the best chairs, pinched a couple of my special cigarettes, poured themselves out a whisky-and-soda \expndtw5 apiece, and started to prattle with the gaiety and abandon of two \expndtw3 birds who had achieved their life's ambition instead of having come \expndtw5 a most frightful purler and being under sentence of exile.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Hallo, Bertie, old thing,' said Claude. 'Jolly decent of you to put \expndtw7 us up.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Oh, no,' I said. 'Only wish you were staying a good long time.'\par
'\expndtw2 Hear that, Eustace? He wishes we were staying a good long time.'\par
'\expndtw12 I expect it will seem a good long time,' said Eustace, philo\expndtw-3 sophically.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw9 'You heard about the binge, Bertie? Our little bit of trouble, I \expndtw-1 mean?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Oh, yes. Aunt Agatha was telling me.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'We leave our country for our country's good,' said Eustace.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw7 'And let there be no moaning at the bar,' said Claude, 'when I \expndtw4 put out to sea. What did Aunt Agatha tell you?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'She said you poured lemonade on the Junior Dean.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'I wish the deuce,' said Claude, annoyed, 'that people would get \expndtw7 these things right. It wasn't the Junior Dean. It was the Senior \expndtw9 Tutor.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'And it wasn't lemonade,' said Eustace. 'It was soda-water. The \expndtw2 dear old thing happened to be standing just under our window while \expndtw5 I was leaning out with a siphon in my hand. He looked up, and -\expndtw4 well, it would have been chucking away the opportunity of a life\expndtw5 time if I hadn't let him have it in the eyeball.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Simply chucking it away,' agreed Claude.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Might never have occurred again,' said Eustace.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'Hundred to one against it,' said Claude.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Now, what,' said Eustace, 'do you propose to do, Bertie, in the \expndtw3 way of entertaining the handsome guests tonight?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'My idea was to have a bit of dinner in the flat,' I said. 'Jeeves is \expndtw3 getting it ready now.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'And afterwards?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Well, I thought we might chat of this and that, and then it struck \expndtw1 me that you would probably like to turn in early, as your train goes \expndtw5 about ten or something, doesn't it?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 The twins looked at each other in a pitying sort of way.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Bertie,' said Eustace, 'you've got the programme nearly right, but \expndtw2 not quite. I envisage the evening's events thus: We will toddle along \expndtw1 to Giro's after dinner. It's an extension night, isn't it? Well, that will \expndtw5 see us through till about two-thirty or three.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'After which, no doubt,' said Claude, 'the Lord will provide.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'But I thought you would want to get a good night's rest.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw8 'Good night's rest!' said Eustace. 'My dear old chap, you don't\cf0\expndtw0  \cf1\expndtw2 for a moment imagine that we are dreaming of going to \i bed \i0 tonight, \expndtw0 do you?'\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 I suppose the fact of the matter is, I'm not the man I was. I mean, \expndtw5 those all-night vigils don't seem to fascinate me as they used to a \expndtw2 few years ago. I can remember the time, when I was up at Oxford, \expndtw6 when a Covent Garden ball till six in the morning, with breakfast \expndtw2 at the Hammams and probably a free fight with a few selected \expndtw6 costermongers to follow, seemed to me what the doctor ordered. \expndtw0 But nowadays two o'clock is about my limit; and by two o'clock the \expndtw3 twins were just settling down and beginning to go nicely.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 As far as I can remember, we went on from Giro's to play chemmy \expndtw1 with some fellows I don't recall having met before, and it must have \expndtw6 been about nine in the morning when we fetched up again at the \expndtw4 flat. By which time, I'm bound to admit, as far as I was concerned \expndtw3 the first careless freshness was beginning to wear off a bit. In fact, \expndtw4 I'd just got enough strength to say goodbye to the twins, wish them \expndtw0 a pleasant voyage and a happy and successful career in South Africa, \expndtw2 and stagger into bed. The last I remember was hearing the blighters \expndtw5 chanting like larks under the cold shower, breaking off from time to time to shout to Jeeves to rush along the eggs and bacon.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 It must have been about one in the afternoon when I woke. I was \expndtw3 feeling more or less like something the Pure Food Committee had \expndtw6 rejected, but there was one bright thought which cheered me up, \expndtw4 and that was that about now the twins would be leaning on the rail \expndtw6 of the liner, taking their last glimpse of the dear old homeland. \expndtw2 Which made it all the more of a shock when the door opened and Claude walked in.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Hallo, Bertie!' said Claude. 'Had a nice refreshing sleep? Now, \expndtw4 what about a good old bite of lunch?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 I'd been having so many distorted nightmares since I had dropped \expndtw6 off to sleep that for half a minute I thought this was simply one \expndtw2 more of them, and the worst of the lot. It was only when Claude sat \expndtw4 down on my feet that I got on to the fact that this was stern reality.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'Great Scott! What on earth are you doing here?' I gurgled.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 Claude looked at me reproachfully.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Hardly the tone I like to hear in a host, Bertie,' he said reprovingly. 'Why, it was only last night that you were saying you wished \expndtw4 I was stopping a good long time. Your dream has come true. I am.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'But why aren't you on your way to South Africa?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw8 'Now that,' said Claude, 'is a point I rather thought you would\cf0\expndtw0  \cf1\expndtw5 want to have explained. It's like this, old man. You remember that \expndtw4 girl you introduced me to at Giro's last night?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Which girl?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'There was only one,' said Claude coldly. 'Only one that counted, \expndtw3 that is to say. Her name was Marion Wardour. I danced with her a \expndtw4 good deal, if you remember.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 I began to recollect in a hazy sort of way. Marion Wardour has \expndtw5 been a pal of mine for some time. A very good sort. She's playing in that show at the Apollo at the moment. I remembered now that \expndtw4 she had been at Giro's with a party the night before, and the twins \expndtw5 had insisted on being introduced.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw7 'We are soul-mates, Bertie,' said Claude. 'I found it out quite \expndtw4 early in the \scaps pm, \scaps0 and the more thought I've given to the matter the \expndtw1 more convinced I've become. It happens like that now and then, you \expndtw2 know. Two hearts that beat as one, I mean, and all that sort of thing. \expndtw3 So the long and the short of it is that I gave old Eustace the slip at \expndtw2 Waterloo and slid back here. The idea of going to South Africa and \expndtw7 leaving a girl like that in England doesn't appeal to me a bit. I'm \expndtw2 for all thinking imperially and giving the Colonies a leg-up and all \expndtw6 that sort of thing; but it can't be done. After all,' said Claude \expndtw3 reasonably, 'South Africa has got along all right without me up to now, so why shouldn't it stick it?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'But what about Van Alstyne, or whatever his name is? He'll be \expndtw4 expecting you to turn up.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Oh, he'll have Eustace. That'll satisfy him. Very sound fellow, \expndtw1 Eustace. Probably end up by being a magnate of some kind. I shall \expndtw2 watch his future progress with considerable interest. And now you \expndtw6 must excuse me for a moment, Bertie. I want to go and hunt up \expndtw3 Jeeves and get him to mix me one of those pick-me-ups of his. For \expndtw2 some reason which I can't explain, I've got a slight headache this morning.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 And, believe me or believe me not, the door had hardly closed \expndtw2 behind him when in blew Eustace with a shining morning face that \expndtw4 made me ill to look at.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'Oh, my aunt!' I said.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 Eustace started to giggle pretty freely.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Smooth work, Bertie, smooth work!' he said. 'I'm sorry for poor \expndtw2 old Claude, but there was no alternative. I eluded his vigilance at \expndtw3 Waterloo and snaked off in a taxi. I suppose the poor old ass is \expndtw7 wondering where the deuce I've got to. But it couldn't be helped. \expndtw-1 If you really seriously expected me to go slogging off to South Africa,\cf0\expndtw0  \cf1\expndtw7 you shouldn't have introduced me to Miss Wardour last night. I \expndtw2 want to tell you all about that, Bertie. I'm not a man,' said Eustace, \expndtw1 sitting down on the bed, 'who falls in love with every girl he sees. I \expndtw5 suppose "strong, silent", would be the best description you could \expndtw4 find for me. But when I do meet my affinity I don't waste time. I -'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Oh, heaven! Are you in love with Marion Wardour, too?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw8 'Too? What do you mean, "too"?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 I was going to tell him about Claude, when the blighter came in \expndtw6 in person, looking like a giant refreshed. There's no doubt that \expndtw5 Jeeves's pick-me-ups will produce immediate results in anything \expndtw3 short of an Egyptian mummy. It's something he puts in them - the \expndtw2 Worcester sauce or something. Claude had revived like a watered \expndtw1 flower, but he nearly had a relapse when he saw his bally brother \expndtw3 goggling at him over the bed-rail.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'What on earth are you doing here?' he said.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'What on earth are \i you \i0 doing here?' said Eustace.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'Have you come back to inflict your beastly society upon Miss \expndtw3 Wardour?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Is that why you've come back?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 They thrashed the subject out a bit further.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Well,' said Claude at last. 'I suppose it can't be helped. If you're \expndtw5 here, you're here. May the best man win!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'Yes, but dash it all!' I managed to put in at this point. 'What's \expndtw1 the idea? Where do you think you're going to stay if you stick on in \expndtw2 London?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Why, here,' said Eustace, surprised.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Where else?' said Claude, raising his eyebrows.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'You won't object to putting us up, Bertie?' said Eustace.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Not a sportsman like you,' said Claude.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'But, you silly asses, suppose Aunt Agatha finds out that I'm \expndtw3 hiding you when you ought to be in South Africa? Where do I get \expndtw-6 off?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Where \i does \i0 he get off?' Claude asked Eustace.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Oh, I expect he'll manage somehow,' said Eustace to Claude.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Of course,' said Claude, quite cheered up. \i * He'll \i0 manage.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Rather!' said Eustace. 'A resourceful chap like Bertie! Of course \expndtw1 he will.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw7 'And now,' said Claude, shelving the subject, 'what about that \expndtw2 bite of lunch we were discussing a moment ago, Bertie? That stuff \expndtw7 good old Jeeves slipped into me just now has given me what you\cf0\expndtw0  \cf1\expndtw3 might call an appetite. Something in the nature of six chops and a \expndtw5 batter pudding would about meet the case, I think.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 I suppose every chappie in the world has black periods in his life \expndtw4 to which he can't look back without the smouldering eye and the \expndtw1 silent shudder. Some coves, if you can judge by the novels you read \expndtw0 nowadays, have them practically all the time; but, what with enjoying \expndtw3 a sizeable private income and a topping digestion, I'm bound to say \expndtw2 it isn't very often I find my own existence getting a flat tyre. That's \expndtw10 why this particular epoch is one that I don't think about more \expndtw2 often than I can help. For the days that followed the unexpected \expndtw5 resurrection of the blighted twins were so absolutely foul that the \expndtw3 old nerves began to stick out of my body a foot long and curling at \expndtw1 the ends. All of a twitter, believe me. I imagine the fact of the matter \expndtw2 is that we Woosters are so frightfully honest and open and all that, \expndtw4 that it gives us the pip to have to deceive.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 All was quiet along the Potomac for about twenty-four hours, and \expndtw2 then Aunt Agatha trickled in to have a chat. Twenty minutes earlier \expndtw0 and she would have found the twins gaily shoving themselves outside \expndtw5 a couple of rashers and an egg. She sank into a chair, and I could see that she was not in her usual sunny spirits.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'Bertie,' she said, 'I am uneasy.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 So was I. I didn't know how long she intended to stop, or when \expndtw3 the twins were coming back.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'I wonder,' she said, 'if I took too harsh a view towards Claude and Eustace.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'You couldn't.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'What do you mean?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'I - er - mean it would be so unlike you to be harsh to anybody, \expndtw9 Aunt Agatha.' And not bad, either. I mean, quick - like that -\expndtw4 without thinking. It pleased the old relative, and she looked at me \expndtw3 with slightly less loathing than she usually does.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'It is nice of you to say that, Bertie, but what I was thinking was, \expndtw3 are they \i safer\cf0\expndtw0\i0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Are they \i what?\cf0\expndtw0\i0\par
\cf1 It seemed such a rummy adjective to apply to the twins, they being \expndtw4 about as innocuous as a couple of sprightly young tarantulas.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Do you think all is well with them?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'How do you mean?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 Aunt Agatha eyed me almost wistfully.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Has it ever occurred to you, Bertie,' she said, 'that your Uncle \expndtw2 George may be psychic?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 She seemed to me to be changing the subject. \expndtw-1 'Psychic?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Do you think it is possible that he could \i see \i0 things not visible to \expndtw3 the normal eye?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 I thought it dashed possible, if not probable. I don't know if you've \expndtw6 ever met my Uncle George. He's a festive old egg who wanders \expndtw1 from club to club continually having a couple with other festive old \expndtw2 eggs. When he heaves in sight, waiters brace themselves up and the \expndtw0 wine-steward toys with his corkscrew. It was my Uncle George who \expndtw-2 discovered that alcohol was a food well in advance of modern medical \expndtw1 thought.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Your Uncle George was dining with me last night, and he was \expndtw0 quite shaken. He declares that, while on his way from the Devonshire \expndtw5 Club to Boodle's he suddenly saw the phantasm of Eustace.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'The what of Eustace?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw7 'The phantasm. The wraith. It was so clear that he thought for \expndtw3 an instant that it was Eustace himself. The figure vanished round a \expndtw6 corner, and when Uncle George got there nothing was to be seen. \expndtw2 It is all very queer and disturbing. It had a marked effect on poor \expndtw5 George. All through dinner he touched nothing but barley-water, \expndtw10 and his manner was quite disturbed. You do think those poor, \expndtw2 dear boys are safe, Bertie? They have not met with some horrible \expndtw0 accident?'\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw8 It made my mouth water to think of it, but I said no, I didn't \expndtw6 think they had met with any horrible accident. I thought Eustace \expndtw2\i was \i0 a horrible accident, and Claude about the same, but I didn't say \expndtw3 so. And presently she biffed off, still worried.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 When the twins came in, I put it squarely to the blighters. Jolly \expndtw6 as it was to give Uncle George shocks, they must not wander at \expndtw4 large about the metrop.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'But, my dear old soul,' said Claude. 'Be reasonable. We can't \expndtw4 have our movements hampered.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Out of the question,' said Eustace.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'The whole essence of the thing, if you understand me,' said \expndtw5 Claude, 'is that we should be at liberty to flit hither and thither.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Exactly,' said Eustace. 'Now hither, now thither.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw12 'But, damn it -'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Bertie!' said Eustace reprovingly. 'Not before the boy!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Of course, in a way I see his point,' said Claude. 'I suppose the \expndtw4 solution of the problem would be to buy a couple of disguises.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'My dear old chap!' said Eustace, looking at him with admiration. \expndtw5 'The brightest idea on record. Not your own, surely?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Well, as a matter of fact, it was Bertie who put it into my head.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'Me!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'You were telling me the other day about old Bingo Little and the \expndtw5 beard he bought when he didn't want his uncle to recognize him.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'If you think I'm going to have you two excrescences popping in \expndtw8 and out of my flat in beards -'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw7 'Something in that,' agreed Eustace. 'We'll make it whiskers, \expndtw6 then.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'And false noses,' said Claude.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'And, as you say, false noses. Right-o, then, Bertie, old chap, \expndtw2 that's a load off your mind. We don't want to be any trouble to you while we're paying you this little visit.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 And, when I went buzzing round to Jeeves for consolation, all he \expndtw3 would say was something about Young Blood. No sympathy.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'Very good, Jeeves,' I said. 'I shall go for a walk in the park. Kindly put me out the Old Etonion spats.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Very good, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\par
\cf1\expndtw3 It must have been a couple of days after that that Marion Wardour \expndtw1 rolled in at about the hour of tea. She looked warily round the room \expndtw2 before sitting down.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Your cousins not at home, Bertie?' she said.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'No, thank goodness!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Then I'll tell you where they are. They're in my sitting-room, \expndtw2 glaring at each other from opposite corners, waiting for me to come \expndtw5 in. Bertie, this has got to stop.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'You're seeing a good deal of them, are you?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 Jeeves came in with the tea, but the poor girl was so worked up \expndtw3 that she didn't wait for him to pop off before going on with her \expndtw5 complaint. She had an absolutely hunted air, poor thing.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'I can't move a step without tripping over one or both of them,' \expndtw6 she said. 'Generally both. They've taken to calling together, and \expndtw1 they just settle down grimly and try to sit each other out. It's wearing \expndtw5 me to a shadow.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'I know,' I said sympathetically. 'I know.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Well, what's to be done?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'It beats me. Couldn't you tell your maid to say you are not at \expndtw1 home?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 She shuddered slightly.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'I tried that once. They camped on the stairs, and I couldn't get \expndtw2 out all the afternoon. And I had a lot of particularly important \expndtw0 engagements. I wish you would persuade them to go to South Africa, \expndtw5 where they seem to be wanted.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'You must have made the dickens of an impression on them.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'I should say I have. They've started giving me presents now. At \expndtw6 least Claude has. He insisted on my accepting this cigarette-case last night. Came round to the theatre and wouldn't go away till I took it. It's not a.bad one, I must say.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 It wasn't. It was a distinctly fruity concern in gold with a diamond \expndtw5 stuck in the middle. And the rummy thing was that I had a notion \expndtw3 I'd seen something very like it before somewhere. How the deuce \expndtw8 Claude had been able to dig up the cash to buy a thing like that \expndtw4 was more than I could imagine.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 Next day was a Wednesday, and as the object of their devotion \expndtw6 had a \i matinee, \i0 the twins were, so to speak, off duty. Claude had \expndtw7 gone with his whiskers on to Hurst Park, and Eustace and I were \expndtw4 in the flat, talking. At least, he was talking and I was wishing he \expndtw1 would go.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'The love of a good woman, Bertie,' he was saying, 'must be a \expndtw7 wonderful thing. Sometimes ... Good Lord! What's that?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 The front door had opened, and from out in the hall there came the sound of Aunt Agatha's voice asking if I was in. Aunt Agatha \expndtw2 has one of those high, penetrating voices, but this was the first time \expndtw4 I'd ever been thankful for it. There was just about two seconds to clear the way for her, but it was long enough for Eustace to dive \expndtw5 under the sofa. His last shoe had just disappeared when she came \expndtw-4 in.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 She had a worried look. It seemed to me about this time that \expndtw-1 everybody had.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Bertie,' she said, 'what are your immediate plans?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw7 'How do you mean? I'm dining tonight with -'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'No, no, I don't mean tonight. Are you busy for the next few days? \expndtw6 But, of course you are not,' she went on, not waiting for me to \expndtw1 answer. 'You never have anything to do. Your whole life is spent in \expndtw3 idle - but we can go into that later. What I came for this afternoon \expndtw5 was to tell you that I wish you to go with your poor Uncle George \expndtw4 to Harrogate for a few weeks. The sooner you can start, the better.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 This appeared to me to approximate so closely to the frozen limit \expndtw6 that I uttered a yelp of protest. Uncle George is all right, but he \expndtw4 won't do. I was trying to say as much when she waved me down.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'If you are not entirely heartless, Bertie, you will do as I ask you. \expndtw5 Your poor Uncle George has had a severe shock.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'What, another?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'He feels that only complete rest and careful medical attendance can restore his nervous system to its normal poise. It seems that in \expndtw2 the past he has derived benefit from taking the waters at Harrogate, \expndtw7 and he wishes to go there now. We do not think he ought to be \expndtw3 alone, so I wish you to accompany him.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'But, I say!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Bertie!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 There was a lull in the conversation.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'What shock has he had?' I asked.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Between ourselves,' said Aunt Agatha, lowering her voice in an impressive manner, 'I incline to think that the whole affair was the outcome of an over-excited imagination. You are one of the family, Bertie, and I can speak freely to you. You know as well as I do that \expndtw7 your poor Uncle George has for many years \i not \i0 been a - he has -er - developed a bit of a habit - how shall I put it?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Shifting it a bit?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'I beg your pardon?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Mopping up the stuff to some extent?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'I dislike your way of putting it exceedingly, but I must confess that he has not been, perhaps, as temperate as he should. He is \expndtw7 highly-strung, and ... Well, the fact is, that he has had a shock.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Yes, but what?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'That is what it is so hard to induce him to explain with any precision. With all his good points, your poor Uncle George is apt \expndtw0 to become incoherent when strongly moved. As far as I could gather, \expndtw4 he appears to have been the victim of a burglary.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'Burglary!'\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'He says that a strange man with whiskers and a peculiar nose \expndtw6 entered his rooms in Jermyn Street during his absence and stole \expndtw2 some of his property. He says that he came back and found the man \expndtw3 in his sitting-room. He immediately rushed out of the room and disappeared.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Uncle George?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw8 'No, the man. And, according to your Uncle George, he had \expndtw1 stolen a valuable cigarette-case. But, as I say, I am inclined to think that the whole thing was imagination. He has not been himself since \expndtw10 the day when he fancied that he saw Eustace in the street. So I\cf0\expndtw0  \cf1 should like you, Bertie, to be prepared to start for Harrogate with \expndtw2 him not later than Saturday.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 She popped off, and Eustace crawled out from under the sofa. \expndtw-1 The blighter was strongly moved. So was I, for the matter of that. The idea of several weeks with Uncle George at Harrogate seemed \expndtw-3 to make everything go black.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-3 'So that's where he got that cigarette-case, dash him!' said Eustace \expndtw-1 bitterly. 'Of all the dirty tricks! Robbing his own flesh and blood! \expndtw1 That fellow ought to be in chokey.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'He ought to be in South Africa,' I said. 'And so ought you.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 And with an eloquence which rather surprised me, I hauled up \expndtw-2 my slacks for perhaps ten minutes on the subject of his duty to his family and what not. I appealed to his sense of decency. I boosted \expndtw1 South Africa with vim. I said everything I could think of, much of \expndtw-3 it twice over. But all the blighter did was to babble about his dashed \expndtw-1 brother's baseness in putting one over on him in the matter of the cigarette-case. He seemed to think that Claude, by slinging in the \expndtw-3 handsome gift, had got right ahead of him: and there was a painful \expndtw4 scene when the latter came back from Hurst Park. I could hear \expndtw1 them talking half the night, long after I had tottered off to bed. I \expndtw-3 don't know when I've met fellows who could do with less sleep than \expndtw-4 those two.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 After this, things became a bit strained at the flat owing to Claude \expndtw0 and Eustace not being on speaking terms. I'm all for a certain \expndtw1 chumminess in the home, and it was wearing to have to live with \expndtw0 two fellows who wouldn't admit that the other one was on the map \expndtw-3 at all.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 One felt the thing couldn't go on like that for long, and, by Jove, \expndtw-2 it didn't. But, if anyone had come to me the day before and told me \expndtw0 what was going to happen, I should simply have smiled wanly. I mean, I'd got so accustomed to thinking mat nothing short of a \expndtw-4 dynamite explosion could ever dislodge those two nestlers from my \expndtw3 midst that, when Claude sidled up to me on the Friday morning \expndtw1 and told me his bit of news, I could hardly believe I was hearing \expndtw-5 right.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Bertie,' he said, 'I've been thinking it over.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 'What over?' I said.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'The whole thing. This business of staying in London when I \expndtw4 ought to be in South Africa. It isn't fair,' said Claude warmly. 'It\cf0\expndtw0  \cf1\expndtw-1 isn't right. And the long and the short of it is, Bertie, old man, I'm \expndtw-3 leaving tomorrow.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 I reeled in my tracks.\cf0\par
\cf1 'You are?' I gasped.\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 'Yes. If,' said Claude, 'you won't mind sending old Jeeves out to \expndtw-3 buy a ticket for me. I'm afraid I'll have to stick you for the passage \expndtw0 money, old man. You don't mind?'\cf0\par
\cf1 'Mind!' I said, clutching his hand fervently.\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 That's all right, then. Oh, I say, you won't say a word to Eustace \expndtw-2 about this, will you?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'But isn't he going, too?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 Claude shuddered.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 'No, thank heaven! The idea of being cooped up on board a ship \expndtw-2 with that blighter gives me the pip just to think of it. No, not a word to Eustace. I say, I suppose you can get me a berth all right at such short notice?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Rather!' I said. Sooner than let this opportunity slip, I would \expndtw-1 have bought the bally boat.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Jeeves,' I said, breezing into the kitchen. 'Go out on first speed to the Union-Castle offices and book a berth on tomorrow's boat \expndtw1 for Mr Claude. He is leaving us, Jeeves.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'Yes, sir.'\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 'Mr Claude does not wish any mention of this to be made to Mr Eustace.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'No, sir. Mr Eustace made the same proviso when he desired me \expndtw1 to obtain a berth on tomorrow's boat for himself.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 I gaped at the man.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'Is he going, too?'\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 'Yes, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'This is rummy.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'Yes, sir.'\cf0\par
\cf1 Had circumstances been other than they were, I would at this juncture have unbent considerably towards Jeeves. Frisked round \expndtw-2 him a bit and whooped to a certain extent, and what not. But those \expndtw2 spats still formed a barrier, and I regret to say that I took the \expndtw1 opportunity of rather rubbing it in a bit on the man. I mean, he'd been so dashed aloof and unsympathetic, though perfectly aware \expndtw-1 that the young master was in the soup and that it was up to him to rally round, that I couldn't help pointing out how the happy ending \expndtw0 had been snaffled without any help from him.\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'So that's that, Jeeves,' I said. The episode is concluded. I knew\cf0\expndtw0  \cf1\expndtw4 things would sort themselves out if one gave them time and didn't \expndtw2 get rattled. Many chaps in my place would have got rattled, Jeeves.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Yes, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Gone rushing about, I mean, asking people for help and advice \expndtw6 and so forth.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Very possibly, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'But not me, Jeeves.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'No, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 I left him to brood on it.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\par
\cf1\expndtw2 Even the thought that I'd got to go to Harrogate with Uncle George \expndtw5 couldn't depress me that Saturday when I gazed about the old flat and realized that Claude and Estace weren't in it. They had slunk \expndtw1 off stealthily and separately immediately after breakfast, Eustace to \expndtw3 catch the boat-train at Waterloo, Claude to go round to the garage \expndtw6 where I kept my car. I didn't want any chance of the two meeting \expndtw2 at Waterloo and changing their minds, so I had suggested to Claude \expndtw5 that he might find it pleasanter to drive down to Southampton.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 I was lying back on the old settee, gazing peacefully up at the flies \expndtw2 on the ceiling and feeling what a wonderful world this was, when \expndtw4 Jeeves came in with a letter.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'A messenger-boy has brought this, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 I opened the envelope, and the first thing that fell out was a five-\expndtw5 pound note.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'Great Scott!' I said. 'What's all this?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 The letter was scribbled in pencil, and was quite brief;\cf0\expndtw0\par
\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi360\li720\ri2880\sb29\cf1\expndtw-5\i Dear Bertie,\cf0\expndtw0\i0\par
\cf1\expndtw-4\i Will you give enclosed to your man, and tell him I wish I could \expndtw-5 make it more. He has saved my life. This is the first happy day I've had for a week.\cf0\expndtw0\i0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi360\li720\ri2880\sb29\qc\cf1\expndtw-17\i Yours,\cf0\expndtw0\i0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 M.W.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi360\ri-1800\sb29\par
\cf1\expndtw3 Jeeves was standing holding out the fiver, which had fluttered to \expndtw2 the floor.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'You'd better stick to it,' I said. 'It seems to be for you.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Sir?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'I say that fiver is for you, apparently. Miss Wardour sent it.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'That was extremely kind of her, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'What the dickens is she sending you fivers for? She says you \expndtw-1 saved her life.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-3 Jeeves smiled gently.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'She over-estimates my services, sir.'\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw-2 'But what \i were \i0 your services, dash it?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'It was in the matter of Mr Claude and Mr Eustace, sir. I was \expndtw-1 hoping that she would not refer to the matter, as I did not wish you \expndtw1 to think that I had been taking a liberty.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'What do you mean?'\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw-4 'I chanced to be in the room while Miss Wardour was complaining \expndtw3 with some warmth of the manner in which Mr Claude and Mr \expndtw-1 Eustace were thrusting their society upon her. I felt that in the \expndtw-2 circumstances it might be excusable if I suggested a slight ruse to \expndtw1 enable her to dispense with their attentions.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Good Lord! You don't mean to say you were at the bottom of \expndtw0 their popping off, after all!'\cf0\par
\cf1 Silly ass it made me feel. I mean, after rubbing it in to him like \expndtw-1 that about having clicked without his assistance.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 'It occurred to me that, were Miss Wardour to inform Mr Claude \expndtw0 and Mr Eustace independently that she proposed sailing for South Africa to take up a theatrical engagement, the desired effect might \expndtw-2 be produced. It appears that my anticipations were correct, sir. The \expndtw0 young gentlemen ate it, if I may use the expression.'\cf0\par
\cf1 'Jeeves,' I said - we Woosters may make bloomers, but we are \expndtw2 never too proud to admit it - 'you stand alone!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Thank you very much, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 'Oh, but I say!' A ghastly thought had struck me. 'When they get on the boat and find she isn't there, won't they come buzzing back?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-3 'I anticipated that possibility, sir. At my suggestion, Miss Wardour \expndtw-1 informed the young gentlemen that she proposed to travel overland \expndtw1 to Madeira and join the vessel there.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'And where do they touch after Madeira?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Nowhere, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 For a moment I just lay back, letting the idea of the thing soak in. There seemed to me to be only one flaw.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'The only pity is,' I said, 'that on a large boat like that they will \expndtw-3 be able to avoid each other. I mean, I should have liked to feel that \expndtw-1 Claude was having a good deal of Eustace's society and vice versa.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-2 'I fancy that that will be so, sir. I secured a two-berth state-room. \expndtw2 Mr Claude will occupy one berth, Mr Eustace the other.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 I sighed with pure ecstasy. It seemed a dashed shame that on this\cf0\expndtw0  \cf1\expndtw-1 joyful occasion I should have to go off to Harrogate with my Uncle \expndtw-3 George.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 'Have you started packing yet, Jeeves?' I asked.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-2 'Packing, sir?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'For Harrogate. I've got to go there today with Sir George.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 'Of course, yes, sir. I forgot to mention it. Sir George rang up on \expndtw-3 the telephone this morning while you were still asleep, and said that \expndtw1 he had changed his plans. He does not intend to go to Harrogate.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 'Oh, I say, how absolutely topping!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'I thought you might be pleased, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'What made him change his plans? Did he say?'\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'No, sir. But I gather from his man, Stevens, that he is feeling \expndtw-1 much better and does not now require a rest-cure. I took the liberty of giving Stevens the recipe for that pick-me-up of mine, of which \expndtw-4 you have always approved so much. Stevens tells me that Sir George \expndtw1 informed him this morning that he is feeling a new man.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 Well, there was only one thing to do, and I did it. I'm not saying \expndtw1 it didn't hurt, but there was no alternative.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Jeeves,' I said, 'those spats.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-3 'Yes, sir?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-2 'You really dislike them?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'Intensely, sir.'\cf0\par
\cf1 'You don't think time might induce you to change your views?'\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'No, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'All right, then. Very well. Say no more. You may burn them.'\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw-3 'Thank you very much, sir. I have already done so. Before break\expndtw-2 fast this morning. A quiet grey is far more suitable, sir. Thank you, \expndtw0 sir.'\cf0\par
\par
\cf1\expndtw-31\ul 17\expndtw0\par
\expndtw3 Bingo and The Little Woman\cf0\expndtw0\ulnone\par
\par
\cf1 It must have been a week or so after the departure of Claude and Eustace that I ran into young Bingo Little in the smoking-room of \expndtw-2 the Senior Liberal Club. He was lying back in an armchair with his \expndtw-3 mouth open and a sort of goofy expression in his eyes, while a grey-\expndtw1 bearded cove in the middle distance watched him with so much \expndtw-2 dislike that I concluded that Bingo had pinched his favourite seat. \expndtw0 That's the worst of being in a strange club - absolutely without \expndtw-3 intending it, you find yourself constantly trampling upon the vested \expndtw1 interests of the Oldest Inhabitants.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Hallo, face,' I said.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-3 'Cheerio, ugly,' said young Bingo, and we settled down to have a \expndtw0 small one before lunch.\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 Once a year the committee of the Drones decides that the old \expndtw0 club could do with a wash and brush-up, so they shoo us out and \expndtw-2 dump us down for a few weeks at some other institution. This time \expndtw-1 we were roosting at the Senior Liberal, and personally I had found \expndtw2 the strain pretty fearful. I mean, when you've got used to a club \expndtw-3 where everything's nice and cheery, and where, if you want to attract \expndtw-2 a chappie's attention, you heave a piece of bread at him, it kind of damps you to come to a place where the youngest member is about \expndtw1 eighty-seven and it isn't considered good form to talk to anyone \expndtw-1 unless you and he were through the Peninsular War together. It was \expndtw0 a relief to come across Bingo. We started to talk in hushed voices.\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'This club,' I said, 'is the limit.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 'It is the eel's eyebrows,' agreed young Bingo. 'I believe that old \expndtw1 boy over by the window has been dead three days, but I don't like to mention it to anyone.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'Have you lunched here yet?'\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw-2 'No. Why?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'They have waitresses instead of waiters.'\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Good Lord! I thought that went out with the armistice.' Bingo\cf0\expndtw0  \cf1\expndtw5 mused a moment, straightening his tie absently. 'Er - pretty girls?' \expndtw2 he said.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw8 'No.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 He seemed disappointed, but pulled round.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'Well, I've heard that the cooking's the best in London.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'So they say. Shall we be going in?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'All right. I expect,' said young Bingo, 'that at the end of the meal\cf0\expndtw0  \cf1 - \expndtw1 or possibly at the beginning - the waitress will say, "Both together, \expndtw4 sir?" Reply the affirmative. I haven't a bean.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Hasn't your uncle forgiven you yet?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Not yet, confound him!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 I was sorry to hear the row was still on. I resolved to do the poor \expndtw6 old thing well at the festive board, and I scanned the menu with \expndtw4 some intentness when the girl rolled up with it.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'How would this do you, Bingo?' I said at length. 'A few plovers' \expndtw2 eggs to weigh in with, a cup of soup, a touch of cold salmon, some cold curry, and a splash of gooseberry tart and cream with a bite of cheese to finish?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 I don't know that I had expected the man actually to scream with \expndtw5 delight, though I had picked the items from my knowledge of his pet dishes, but I had expected him to say something. I looked up, \expndtw2 and found that his attention was elsewhere. He was gazing at the \expndtw6 waitress with the look of a dog that's just remembered where its \expndtw3 bone was buried.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 She was a tallish girl with sort of soft, soulful brown eyes. Nice \expndtw6 figure and all that. Rather decent hands, too. I didn't remember \expndtw2 having seen her about before, and I must say she raised the standard \expndtw5 of the place quite a bit.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw7 'How about it, laddie?' I said, being all for getting the order \expndtw4 booked and going on to the serious knife-and-fork work.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Eh?' said young Bingo absently.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 I recited the programme once more.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Oh, yes, fine!' said Bingo. 'Anything, anything.' The girl pushed \expndtw4 off, and he turned to me with protruding eyes. 'I thought you said \expndtw3 they weren't pretty, Bertie!' he said reproachfully.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Oh, my heavens!' I said. 'You surely haven't fallen in love again\cf0\expndtw0  \cf1 - \expndtw3 and with a girl you've only just seen?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw8 'There are times, Bertie,' said young Bingo, 'when a look is \expndtw2 enough - when, passing through a crowd, we meet somebody's eye \expndtw7 and something seems to whisper -'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 At this point the plovers' eggs arrived, and he suspended his \expndtw4 remarks in order to swoop on them with some vigour.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Jeeves,' I said that night when I got home, 'stand by.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Sir?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Burnish the old brain and be alert and vigilant. I suspect that Mr \expndtw3 Little will be calling round shortly for sympathy and assistance.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'Is Mr Little in trouble, sir?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Well you might call it that. He's in love. For about the fifty-third \expndtw6 time. I ask you, Jeeves, as man to man, did you ever see such a \expndtw0 chap?'\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Mr Little is certainly warm-hearted, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw7 'Warm-hearted! I should think he has to wear asbestos vests. \expndtw2 Well, stand by, Jeeves.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Very good, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 And sure enough, it wasn't ten days before in rolled the old ass, \expndtw6 bleating for volunteers to step one pace forward and come to the \expndtw3 aid of the party.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Bertie,' he said, 'if you are a pal of mine, now is the time to show \expndtw2 it.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Proceed, old gargoyle,' I replied. 'You have our ear.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'You remember giving me lunch at the Senior Liberal some days \expndtw7 ago. We were waited on by a -'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'I remember. Tall, lissom, female.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 He shuddered somewhat.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'I wish you wouldn't talk of her like that, dash it all. She's an \expndtw1 angel.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'All right. Carry on.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'I love her.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Right-o! Push along.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'For goodness' sake don't bustle me. Let me tell you the story in \expndtw0 my own way. I love her, as I was saying, and I want you, Bertie, old \expndtw1 boy, to pop round to my uncle and do a bit of diplomatic work. That \expndtw2 allowance of mine must be restored, and dashed quick, too. What's \expndtw5 more, it must be increased.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'But look here,' I said, being far from keen on the bally business, 'why not wait a while?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Wait? What's the good of waiting?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'Well, you know what generally happens when you fall in love. \expndtw2 Something goes wrong with the works and you get left. Much better \expndtw4 tackle your uncle after the whole thing's fixed and settled.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'It \i is \i0 fixed and settled. She accepted me this morning.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw7 'Good Lord! That's quick work. You haven't known her two \expndtw1 weeks.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Not in this life, no,' said young Bingo. 'But she has a sort of idea \expndtw6 that we must have met in some previous existence. She thinks I \expndtw5 must have been a king in Babylon when she was a Christian slave. \expndtw4 I can't say I remember it myself, but there may be something in it.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Great Scott!' I said. 'Do waitresses really talk like that?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'How should / know how waitresses talk?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Well, you ought to by now. The first time I ever met your uncle \expndtw6 was when you hounded me on to ask him if he would rally round \expndtw4 to help you marry that girl Mabel in the Piccadilly bun-shop.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 Bingo started violently. A wild gleam came into his eyes. And \expndtw7 before I knew what he was up to he had brought down his hand \expndtw4 with a most frightful whack on my summer trousering, causing me \expndtw3 to leap like a young ram.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'Here!' I said.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Sorry,' said Bingo. 'Excited. Carried away. You've given me an \expndtw1 idea, Bertie.' He waited till I had finished massaging the limb, and \expndtw8 resumed his remarks. 'Can you throw your mind back to that \expndtw1 occasion, Bertie? Do you remember the frightfully subtle scheme I \expndtw3 worked? Telling him you were What's-her-name, the woman who \expndtw4 wrote those books, I mean?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 It wasn't likely I'd forget. The ghastly thing was absolutely seared into my memory.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'That is the line of attack,' said Bingo. 'That is the scheme. Rosie \expndtw5 M. Banks forward once more.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'It can't be done, old thing. Sorry, but it's out of the question. I \expndtw5 couldn't go through all that again.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Not for me?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Not for a dozen more like you.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'I never thought,' said Bingo sorrowfully, 'to hear those words \expndtw3 from Bertie Wooster!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'Well, you've heard them now,' I said. 'Paste them in your hat.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Bertie, we were at school together.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'It wasn't my fault.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'We've been pals for fifteen years.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'I know. It's going to take me the rest of my life to live it down.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Bertie, old man,' said Bingo, drawing up his chair closer and starting to knead my shoulder-blade, 'listen! Be reasonable!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 And of course, dash it, at the end of ten minutes I'd allowed the \expndtw4 blighter to talk me round. It's always the way. Anyone can talk me\cf0\expndtw0  \cf1\expndtw3 round. If I were in a Trappist monastery, the first thing that would happen would be that some smooth performer would lure me into \expndtw1 some frightful idiocy against my better judgement by means of the \expndtw4 deaf-and-dumb language.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Well, what do you want me to do?' I said, realizing that it was \expndtw3 hopeless to struggle.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Start off by sending the old boy an autographed copy of your \expndtw6 latest effort with a flattering inscription. That will tickle him to \expndtw7 death. Then you pop round and put it across.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'What \i is \i0 my latest?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1\i ''The Woman who Braved All! \i0 said young Bingo. 'I've seen it all over the place. The shop windows and bookstalls are full of nothing \expndtw2 but it. It looks to me from the picture on the jacket the sort of book \expndtw1 any chappie would be proud to have written. Of course, he will want \expndtw4 to discuss it with you.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Ah!' I said, cheering up. 'That dishes the scheme, doesn't it? I \expndtw4 don't know what the bally thing is about.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'You will have to read it, naturally.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw13 'Read it! No, I say-'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Bertie, we were at school together.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'Oh, right-o! Right-o!' I said.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'I knew I could rely on you. You have a heart of gold. Jeeves,' \expndtw3 said young Bingo, as the faithful servitor rolled in, 'Mr Wooster has \expndtw5 a heart of gold.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Very good, sir,' said Jeeves.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 Bar a weekly wrestle with the \i Pink 'Un \i0 and an occasional dip into \expndtw3 the form-book I'm not much of a lad for reading, and my sufferings \expndtw2 as I tackled \i The Woman \i0 (curse her!) \i who Braved All \i0 were pretty fearful. But I managed to get through it, and only just in time, as it \expndtw3 happened, for I'd hardly reached the bit where their lips met in one \expndtw2 long, slow kiss and everything was still but for the gentle sighing of \expndtw4 the breeze in the laburnum, when a messenger-boy brought a note from old Bittlesham asking me to trickle round to lunch.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 I found the old boy in a mood you could only describe as melting. \expndtw2 He had a copy of the book on the table beside him and kept turning \expndtw4 the pages in the intervals of dealing with things in aspic and what \expndtw0 not.\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Mr Wooster,' he said, swallowing a chunk of trout, 'I wish to \expndtw5 congratulate you. I wish to thank you. You go from strength to strength. I have read \i All for Love; \i0 and I have read \i Only a Factory\cf0\expndtw0\i0  \cf1\expndtw-1\i Girl; \i0 I know \i Madcap Myrtle \i0 by heart. But this - this is your bravest \expndtw2 and best. It tears the heartstrings.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-7 'Yes?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-2 'Indeed yes! I have read it three times since you most kindly sent \expndtw-3 me the volume - I wish to thank you once more for the charming inscription - and I think I may say that I am a better, sweeter, deeper \expndtw-2 man. I am full of human charity and kindliness towards my species.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-2 'No, really?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Indeed, indeed I am.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'Towards the whole species?'\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Towards the whole species.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 'Even young Bingo?' I said, trying him pretty high.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'My nephew? Richard?' He looked a bit thoughtful, but stuck it \expndtw6 like a man and refused to hedge. 'Yes, even towards Richard. \expndtw7 Well... that is to say... perhaps ... yes, even towards Richard.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'That's good, because I wanted to talk about him. He's pretty \expndtw0 hard up, you know.'\cf0\par
\cf1 'In straitened circumstances?'\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw-3 'Stony. And he could use a bit of the right stuff paid every quarter, \expndtw-1 if you felt like unbelting.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 He mused a while and got through a slab of cold guinea hen \expndtw2 before replying. He toyed with the book, and it fell open at page two hundred and fifteen. I couldn't remember what was on page \expndtw-2 two hundred and fifteen, but it must have been something tolerably \expndtw-3 zippy, for his expression changed and he gazed up at me with misty \expndtw2 eyes, as if he'd taken a shade too much mustard with his last bite \expndtw-3 of ham.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'Very well, Mr Wooster,' he said. 'Fresh from a perusal of this \expndtw-1 noble work of yours, I cannot harden my heart. Richard shall have \expndtw-3 his allowance.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 'Stout fellow!' I said. Then it occurred to me that the expression \expndtw-5 might strike a chappie who weighed seventeen stone as a bit personal. \expndtw-1 'Good egg, I mean. That'll take a weight off his mind. He wants to get married, you know.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'I did not know. And I am not sure that I altogether approve. \expndtw-1 Who is the lady?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Well, as matter of fact, she's a waitress.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 He leaped in his seat.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 'You don't say so, Mr Wooster! This is remarkable. This is most \expndtw-3 cheering. I had not given the boy credit for such tenacity of purpose. \expndtw7 An excellent trait in him which I had not hitherto suspected! I\cf0\expndtw0  \cf1 recollect clearly that, on the occasion when I first had the pleasure \expndtw-2 of making your acquaintance, nearly eighteen months ago, Richard \expndtw-1 was desirous of marrying this same waitress.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 I had to break it to him.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-2 'Well, not absolutely this same waitress. In fact, quite a different \expndtw-1 waitress. Still, a waitress, you know.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 The light of avuncular affection died out of the old boy's eyes.\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw-2 'H'm!' he said a bit dubiously. 'I had supposed that Richard was displaying the quality of constancy which is so rare in the modern \expndtw3 young man. I - I must think it over.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-2 So we left it at that, and I came away and told Bingo the position \expndtw-4 of affairs.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'Allowance OK,' I said. 'Uncle's blessing a trifle wobbly.'\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Doesn't he seem to want the wedding bells to ring out?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'I left him thinking it over. If I were a bookie, I should feel \expndtw1 justified in offering a hundred to eight against.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'You can't have approached him properly. I might have known \expndtw-1 you would muck it up,' said young Bingo. Which, considering what \expndtw3 I had been through for his sake, struck me as a good bit sharper \expndtw2 than a serpent's tooth.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-2 'It's awkward,' said young Bingo. 'It's infernally awkward. I can't \expndtw3 tell you all the details at the moment, but... yes, it's awkward.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-2 He helped himself absently to a handful of my cigars and pushed \expndtw-11 off.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 I didn't see him again for three days. Early in the afternoon of \expndtw0 the third day he blew in with a flower in his buttonhole and a look \expndtw-1 on his face as if someone had hit him behind the ear with a stuffed \expndtw-4 eel skin.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Hallo, Bertie.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'Hallo, old turnip. Where have you been all this while?'\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Oh, here and there! Ripping weather we're having, Bertie.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Not bad.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'I see the Bank Rate is down again.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-2 'No, really?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'Disturbing news from Lower Silesia, what?'\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Oh, dashed!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 He pottered about the room for a bit, babbling at intervals. The \expndtw-2 boy seemed cuckoo.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Oh, I say, Bertie!' he said suddenly, dropping a vase which he \expndtw-1 had picked off the mantelpiece and was fiddling with. 'I know what \expndtw1 it was I wanted to tell you. I'm married.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\par
\cf1\expndtw-49\ul\b 18\expndtw0\par
\expndtw-7 All's Well\cf0\expndtw0\ulnone\b0\par
\par
\cf1\expndtw10 I stared at him. That flower in his buttonhole ... That dazed \expndtw-1 look... Yes, he had all the symptoms: and yet the thing seemed \expndtw-3 incredible. The fact is, I suppose, I'd seen so many of young Bingo's \expndtw-2 love-affairs start off with a whoop and a rattle and poof themselves \expndtw-3 out half-way down the straight that I couldn't believe he had actually \expndtw0 brought it off at last.\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Married!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Yes. This morning at a registrar's in Holborn. I've just come \expndtw-1 from the wedding breakfast.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 I sat up in my chair. Alert. The man of affairs. It seemed to me \expndtw1 that this thing wanted threshing out in all its aspects.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Let's get this straight,' I said. 'You're really married?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-3 'Yes.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'The same girl you were in love with the day before yesterday?'\cf0\par
\cf1 'What do you mean?'\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw-4 'Well, you know what you're like. Tell me, what made you commit \expndtw0 this rash act?'\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw-3 'I wish the deuce you wouldn't talk like that. I married her because \expndtw-2 I love her, dash it. The best little woman,' said young Bingo, 'in the \expndtw-3 world.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 'That's all right, and deuced creditable, I'm sure. But have you reflected what your uncle's going to say? The last I saw of him, he \expndtw0 was by no means in a confetti-scattering mood.'\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Bertie,' said Bingo, Til be frank with you. The little woman \expndtw-3 rather put it up to me, if you know what I mean. I told her how my \expndtw-2 uncle felt about it, and she said that we must part unless I loved her \expndtw2 enough to brave the old boy's wrath and marry her right away. So \expndtw1 I had no alternative. I bought a buttonhole and went to it.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'And what do you propose to do now?'\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw-2 'Oh, I've got it all planned out! After you've seen my uncle and \expndtw6 broken the news -'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 'What!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw9 'After you've -'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'You don't mean to say you think you're going to lug \i me \i0 into it?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 He looked at me like Lillian Gish coming out of a swoon.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Is this Bertie Wooster talking?' he said, pained.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Yes, it jolly well is.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Bertie, old man,' said Bingo, patting me gently here and there, \expndtw7 'reflect! We were at school -'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Oh, all right!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Good man! I knew I could rely on you. She's waiting down below \expndtw3 in the hall. We'll pick her up and dash round to Pounceby Gardens \expndtw1 right away.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 I had only seen the bride before in her waitress kit, and I was \expndtw2 rather expecting that on her wedding day she would have launched \expndtw3 out into something fairly zippy in the way of upholstery. The first \expndtw4 gleam of hope I had felt since the start of this black business came to me when I saw that, instead of being all velvet and scent and \expndtw3 flowery hat, she was dressed in dashed good taste. Quiet. Nothing \expndtw2 loud. So far as looks went, she might have stepped straight out of Berkeley Square.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'This is my old pal, Bertie Wooster, darling,' said Bingo. 'We \expndtw4 were at school together, weren't we, Bertie?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'We were!' I said. 'How do you do? I think we - er - met at lunch \expndtw5 the other day, didn't we?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Oh yes! How do you do?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'My uncle eats out of Bertie's hand,' explained Bingo. 'So he's coming round with us to start things off and kind of pave the way. \expndtw2 Hi, taxi!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 We didn't talk much on the journey. Kind of tense feeling. I was glad when the cab stopped at old Bittlesham's wigwam and we all \expndtw5 hopped out. I left Bingo and wife in the hall while I went upstairs \expndtw4 to the drawing-room, and the butler toddled off to dig out the big \expndtw-2 chief.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 While I was prowling about the room waiting for him to show up, \expndtw-1 I suddenly caught sight of the bally \i Woman who Braved All \i0 lying on \expndtw4 one of the tables. It was open at page two hundred and fifteen, and a passage heavily marked in pencil caught my eye. And directly I \expndtw7 read it I saw that it was all to the mustard and was going to help \expndtw3 me in my business.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 This was the passage:\cf0\expndtw0\par
\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi360\li720\ri2790\sb29\cf1\expndtw7 'What can prevail' - Millicent's eyes flashed as she faced the\cf0\expndtw0  \cf1\expndtw-2 stern old man - 'What can prevail against a pure and all-consuming love? Neither principalities nor powers, my lord, nor all the puny prohibitions of guardians and parents. I love your son, Lord \expndtw3 Mindermere, and nothing can keep us apart. Since time first \expndtw-4 began this love of ours was fated, and who are you to put yourself \expndtw0 against the decrees of Fate?'\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 The earl looked at her keenly from beneath his bushy eye\expndtw-6 brows.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Humph!' he said.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi360\ri-1800\sb29\cf1\expndtw-1 Before I had time to refresh my memory as to what Millicent's \expndtw-2 come-back had been to that remark, the door opened and old Bittle-\expndtw0 sham rolled in. All over me, as usual.\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'My dear Mr Wooster, this is an unexpected pleasure. Pray take a seat. What can I do for you?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-3 'Well, the fact is, I'm more or less in the capacity of a jolly old \expndtw-1 ambassador at the moment. Representing young Bingo, you know.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 His geniality sagged a trifle, I thought, but he didn't heave me out, so I pushed on.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'The way I always look at it,' I said, 'is that it's dashed difficult \expndtw-3 for anything to prevail against what you might call a pure and all-\expndtw1 consuming love. I mean, can it be done? I doubt it.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 My eyes didn't exactly flash as I faced the stern old man, but I \expndtw-1 sort of waggled my eyebrows. He puffed a bit and looked doubtful.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'We discussed this matter at our last meeting, Mr Wooster. And \expndtw5 on that occasion -'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'Yes. But there have been developments, as it were, since then. \expndtw-1 The fact of the matter is,' I said, coming to the point, 'this morning \expndtw0 young Bingo went and jumped off the dock.'\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Good heavens!' He jerked himself to his feet with his mouth \expndtw-2 open. 'Why? Where? Which dock?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 I saw that he wasn't quite on.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-2 'I was speaking metaphorically,' I explained, 'if that's the word I \expndtw2 want. I mean he got married.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Married!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'Absolutely hitched up. I hope you aren't ratty about it, what? Young blood, you know. Two loving hearts, and all that.'\cf0\par
\cf1 He panted in a rather overwrought way.\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'I am greatly disturbed by your news. I - I consider that I have \expndtw4 been - er - defied. Yes, defied.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'But who are you to pit yourself against the decrees of Fate?' I \expndtw3 said, taking a look at the prompt book out of the corner of my eye.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Eh?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'You see, this love of theirs was fated. Since time began, you \expndtw0 know.'\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw8 I'm bound to admit that if he'd said 'Humph!' at this juncture, \expndtw1 he would have had me stymied. Luckily it didn't occur to him. There \expndtw6 was a silence, during which he appeared to brood a bit. Then his \expndtw5 eye fell on the book and he gave a sort of start.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Why, bless my soul, Mr Wooster, you have been quoting!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'More or less.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'I thought your words sounded familiar.' His whole appearance changed and he gave a sort of gurgling chuckle. 'Dear me, dear me, you know my weak spot!' He picked up the book and buried himself in it for quite a while. I began to think he had forgotten I was there. \expndtw1 After a bit, however, he put it down again, and wiped his eyes. 'Ah, \expndtw2 well!' he said.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 I shuffled my feet and hoped for the best.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Ah, well,' he said again. 'I must not be like Lord Windermere, \expndtw3 must I, Mr Wooster? Tell me, did you draw that haughty old man \expndtw1 from a living model?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Oh, no! Just thought of him and bunged him down, you know.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Genius!' murmured old Bittlesham. 'Genius! Well, Mr Wooster, \expndtw1 you have won me over. Who, as you say, am I to put myself against \expndtw3 the decrees of Fate? I will write to Richard tonight and inform him \expndtw4 of my consent to his marriage.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'You can slip him the glad news in person,' I said. 'He's waiting downstairs, with wife complete. I'll pop down and send them up. \expndtw1 Cheerio, and thanks very much. Bingo will be most awfully bucked.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 I shot out and went downstairs. Bingo and Mrs were sitting on a \expndtw4 couple of chairs like patients in a dentist's waiting-room.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Well?' said Bingo eagerly.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'All over except the hand-clasping,' I replied, slapping the old \expndtw5 crumpet on the back. 'Charge up and get matey. Toodle-oo, old \expndtw0 things. You know where to find me, if wanted. A thousand congratu\expndtw5 lations, and all that sort of rot.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 And I pipped, not wishing to be fawned upon.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\par
\cf1\expndtw7 You never can tell in this world. If ever I felt that something \expndtw3 attempted, something done had earned a night's repose, it was when I got back to the flat and shoved my feet up on the mantelpiece and\cf0\expndtw0  \cf1\expndtw2 started to absorb the cup of tea which Jeeves had brought in. Used \expndtw5 as I am to seeing Life's sitters blow up in the home stretch and \expndtw1 finish nowhere, I couldn't see any cause for alarm in this affair of \expndtw6 young Bingo's. All he had to do when I left him in Pounceby \expndtw0 Gardens was to walk upstairs with the little missus and collect the \expndtw1 blessing. I was so convinced of this that when, about half an hour \expndtw0 later, he came galloping into my sitting-room, all I thought was that \expndtw2 he wanted to thank me in broken accents and tell me what a good chap I had been. I merely beamed benevolently on the old creature \expndtw0 as he entered, and was just going to offer him a cigarette when I observed that he seemed to have something on his mind. In fact, he \expndtw2 looked as if something solid had hit him in the solar plexus.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'My dear old soul,' I said, 'what's up?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 Bingo plunged about the room.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 'I \i will \i0 be calm!' he said, knocking over an occasional table. 'Calm, \expndtw3 dammit!' He upset a chair.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Surely nothing has gone wrong?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 Bingo uttered one of those hollow, mirthless yelps.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 'Only every bally thing that could go wrong. What do you think happened after you left us? You know that beastly book you insisted \expndtw1 on sending my uncle?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 It wasn't the way I should have put it myself, but I saw the poor \expndtw6 old bean was upset for some reason or other, so I didn't correct \expndtw-4 him.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-4\i '"The Woman who Braved All?' \i0 I said. 'It came in dashed useful. It \expndtw3 was by quoting bits out of it that I managed to talk him round.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Well, it didn't come in useful when we got into the room. It was \expndtw0 lying on the table, and after we had started to chat a bit and everything was going along nicely the little woman spotted it. "Oh, have \expndtw3 you read this, Lord Bittlesham?" she said. "Three times already," \expndtw1 said my uncle. "I'm so glad," said the little woman. "Why, are you \expndtw3 also an admirer of Rosie M. Banks?" asked the old boy, beaming. "I \i am \i0 Rosie M. Banks!" said the little woman.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Oh, my aunt! Not really?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 'Yes.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'But how could she be? I mean, dash it, she was slinging the \expndtw3 foodstuffs at the Senior Liberal Club.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 Bingo gave the settee a moody kick.\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 'She took the job to collect material for a book she's writing called \expndtw2\i Mervyn Keene, Clubman?\cf0\expndtw0\i0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'She might have told you.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'It made such a hit with her when she found that I loved her for herself alone, despite her humble station, that she kept it under her \expndtw4 hat. She meant to spring it on me later on, she said.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Well, what happened then?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'There was the dickens of a painful scene. The old boy nearly got \expndtw1 apoplexy. Called her an imposter. They both started talking at once \expndtw0 at the top of their voices, and the thing ended with the little woman \expndtw1 buzzing off to her publishers to collect proofs as a preliminary to \expndtw0 getting a written apology from the old boy. What's going to happen now, I don't know. Apart from the fact that my uncle will be as mad \expndtw6 as a wet hen when he finds out that he has been fooled, there's \expndtw-1 going to be a lot of trouble when the little woman discovers that we worked the Rosie M. Banks wheeze with a view to trying to get me \expndtw4 married to somebody else. You see, one of the things that first \expndtw-1 attracted her to me was the fact that I had never been in love before.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Did you tell her that?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 'Yes.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Great Scott!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Well, I hadn't been \expndtw25 ...\expndtw2  not really in love. There's all the differ\expndtw6 ence in the world between... Well, never mind that. What am I \expndtw4 going to do? That's the point.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'I don't know.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Thanks,' said young Bingo. 'That's a lot of help.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\par
\cf1\expndtw5 Next morning he rang me up on the phone just after I'd got the \expndtw4 bacon and eggs into my system - the one moment of the day, in \expndtw-1 short, when a chappie wishes to muse on life absolutely undisturbed.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Bertie!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'Hallo?'\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Things are hotting up.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'What's happened now?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'My uncle has given the little woman's proofs the once-over and \expndtw-2 admits her claim. I've just been having five snappy minutes with him \expndtw5 on the telephone. He says that you and I made a fool of him, and \expndtw2 he could hardly speak, he was so shirty. Still, he made it clear all right that my allowance has gone phut again.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'I'm sorry.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'Don't waste time being sorry for me,' said young Bingo grimly. \expndtw-1 'He's coming to call on you today to demand a personal explanation.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Great Scott!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw7 'And the little woman is coming to call on you to demand a \expndtw3 personal explanation.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw8 'Good Lord!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'I shall watch your future career with some considerable interest,' \expndtw1 said young Bingo.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 I bellowed for Jeeves.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 'Jeeves!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Sir?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw8 'I'm in the soup.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Indeed, sir?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 I sketched out the scenario for him.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'What would you advise?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'I think if I were you, sir, I would accept Mr Pitt-Waley's invitation \expndtw2 immediately. If you remember, sir, he invited you to shoot with him \expndtw3 in Norfolk this week.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'So he did! By Jove, Jeeves, you're always right. Meet me at the \expndtw4 station with my things the first train after lunch. I'll go and lie low \expndtw6 at the club for the rest of the morning.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Would you require my company on this visit, sir?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Do you want to come?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'If I might suggest it, sir, I think it would be better if I remained \expndtw6 here and kept in touch with Mr Little. I might possibly hit upon \expndtw3 some method of pacifying the various parties, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Right-o! But, if you do, you're a marvel.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\par
\cf1\expndtw4 I didn't enjoy myself much in Norfolk. It rained most of the time, \expndtw7 and when it wasn't raining I was so dashed jumpy that I couldn't \expndtw5 hit a thing. By the end of the week I couldn't stand it any longer. \expndtw1 Too bally absurd, I mean, being marooned miles away in the country \expndtw4 just because young Bingo's uncle and wife wanted to have a few \expndtw5 words with me. I made up my mind that I would pop back and do \expndtw1 the strong, manly thing by lying low in my flat and telling Jeeves to \expndtw3 inform everybody who called that I wasn't at home.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 I sent Jeeves a telegram saying I was coming, and drove straight \expndtw6 to Bingo's place when I reached town. I wanted to find out the \expndtw2 general posish of affairs. But apparently the man was out. I rang a \expndtw6 couple of times but nothing happened, and I was just going to leg \expndtw5 it when I heard the sound of footsteps inside and the door opened. \expndtw4 It wasn't one of the cheeriest moments of my career when I found myself peering into the globular face of Lord Bittlesham.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'Oh, er, hallo!' I said. And there was a bit of a pause.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 I don't quite know what I had been expecting the old boy to do \expndtw0 if, by bad luck, we should ever meet again, but I had a sort of general \expndtw5 idea that he would turn fairly purple and start almost immediately \expndtw1 to let me have it in the gizzard. It struck me as somewhat rummy, \expndtw2 therefore, when he simply smiled weakly. A sort of frozen smile it \expndtw4 was. His eyes kind of bulged and he swallowed once or twice.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw12 'Er ...' he said.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 I waited for him to continue, but apparently that was all there \expndtw-4 was.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Bingo in?' I said, after a rather embarrassing pause.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 He shook his head and smiled again. And then, suddenly, just as \expndtw0 the flow of conversation had begun to slacken once more, I'm dashed \expndtw6 if he didn't make a sort of lumbering leap back into the flat and \expndtw5 bang the door.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 I couldn't understand it. But, as it seemed that the interview, such \expndtw1 as it was, was over, I thought I might as well be shifting. I had just \expndtw3 started down the steps when I met young Bingo, charging up three \expndtw4 steps at a time.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'Hallo, Bertie!' he said. 'Where did you spring from? I thought \expndtw3 you were out of town?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'I've just got back. I looked in on you to see how the land lay.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'How do you mean?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Why, all that business, you know.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Oh, that!' said young Bingo airily. 'That was all settled days ago. \expndtw2 The dove of peace is flapping its wings all over the place. Every\expndtw6 thing's as right as it can be. Jeeves fixed it all up. He's a marvel, \expndtw1 that man, Bertie, I've always said so. Put the whole thing straight in \expndtw4 half a minute with one of those brilliant ideas of his.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'This is topping!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'I knew you'd be pleased.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 'Congratulate you.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw13 Thanks.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'What did Jeeves do? I couldn't think of any solution of the bally thing myself.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw8 'Oh, he took the matter in hand and smoothed it all out in a \expndtw3 second! My uncle and the little woman are tremendous pals now. \expndtw5 They gas away by the hour together about literature and all that. He's always dropping in for a chat.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 This reminded me.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'He's in there now,' I said. 'I say, Bingo, how \i is \i0 your uncle these \expndtw-5 days?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'Much as usual. How do you mean?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'I mean he hasn't been feeling the strain of things a bit, has he? \expndtw6 He seemed rather strange in his manner just now.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Why, have you met him?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'He opened the door when I rang. And then, after he had stood goggling at me for a bit, he suddenly banged the door in my face. Puzzled me, you know. I mean, I could have understood it if he'd \expndtw2 ticked me off and all that, but dash it, the man seemed absolutely scared.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 Young Bingo laughed a care-free laugh.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Oh, that's all right!' he said. 'I forgot to tell you about that. Meant \expndtw5 to write, but kept putting it off. He thinks you're a loony.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw10 'He - what!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Yes. That was Jeeves's idea, you know. It's solved the whole \expndtw2 problem splendidly. He suggested that I should tell my uncle that I \expndtw1 had acted in perfectly good faith in introducing you to him as Rosie \expndtw2 M. Banks; that I had repeatedly had it from your own lips that you \expndtw6 were, and that I didn't see any reason why you shouldn't be. The \expndtw-1 idea being that you were subject to hallucinations and generally potty. \expndtw2 And then we got hold of Sir Roderick Glossop - you remember, the \expndtw6 old boy whose kid you pushed into the lake that day down at \expndtw2 Ditteredge Hall - and he rallied round with his story of how he had \expndtw4 come to lunch with you and found your bedroom full up with cats \expndtw3 and fish, and how you had pinched his hat while you were driving \expndtw6 past his car in a taxi, and all that, you know. It just rounded the \expndtw4 whole thing off nicely. I always say, and I always shall say, that \expndtw5 you've only got to stand on Jeeves, and Fate can't touch you.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 I can stand a good deal, but there are limits.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw7 'Well, of all the dashed bits of nerve I ever -'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 Bingo looked at me astonished.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'You aren't \i annoyed? \i0 he said.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw10 'Annoyed! At having half London going about under the \expndtw6 impression that I'm off my chump? Dash it all -'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Bertie,' said Bingo, 'you amaze and wound me. If I had dreamed that you would object to doing a trifling good turn to a fellow who's \expndtw7 been a pal or yours for fifteen years -'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw8 'Yes, but, look here -'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'Have you forgotten,' said young Bingo, 'that we were at school together?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\par
\cf1\expndtw7 I pushed on to the old flat, seething like the dickens. One thing I\cf0\expndtw0  \cf1\expndtw2 was jolly certain of, and that was that this was where Jeeves and I parted company. A topping valet, of course, none better in London, but I wasn't going to allow that to weaken me. I buzzed into the flat like an east wind ... and there was the box of cigarettes on the small \expndtw6 table and the illustrated weekly papers on the big table and my \expndtw3 slippers on the floor, and every dashed thing so bally \i right, \i0 if you \expndtw6 know what I mean, that I started to calm down in the first two seconds. It was like one of those moments in a play where the \expndtw2 chappie, about to steep himself in crime, suddenly hears the soft, appealing strains of the old melody he learned at his mother's knee. \expndtw6 Softened, I mean to say. That's the word I want. I was softened.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 And then through the doorway there shimmered good old Jeeves \expndtw1 in the wake of a tray full of the necessary ingredients, and there was \expndtw6 something about the mere look of the man -\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 However, I steeled the old heart and had a stab at it.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'I have just met Mr Little, Jeeves,' I said.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw5 'Indeed, sir?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw9 'He - er - he told me you had been helping him.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 'I did my best, sir. And I am happy to say that matters now appear \expndtw3 to be proceeding smoothly. Whisky, sir?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw17 Thanks. Er-Jeeves.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Sir?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw11 'Another time -'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Sir?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw9 'Oh, nothing... Not all the soda, Jeeves.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Very good, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 He started to drift out.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Oh, Jeeves!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Sir?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw11 'I wish ... that is \expndtw28 ...\expndtw11  I think \expndtw34 ...\expndtw11  I mean ... Oh, nothing!'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Very good, sir. The cigarettes are at your elbow, sir. Dinner will \expndtw5 be ready at a quarter to eight precisely, unless you desire to dine \expndtw-1 out?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw7 'No. I'll dine in.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Yes, sir.'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 'Jeeves!'\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 'Sir?'\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 'Oh, nothing!' I said.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 'Very good, sir,' said Jeeves.\cf0\expndtw0\par
}
 